
Animation
Pryde of the X-MenEmma is one of the members of The Brotherhood of Mutant Terrorists who fought the X-Men. She was known as the White Queen. Emma used her powers to fool the authorities that they are experiencing catastrophes such as being sunk the sand and other mental illusions. Using her psionic spear, she have destroyed the tank where Magneto was captured and freed him. During the X-Men's attempt to retrieve the power circuit, Emma blocked them and Cyclops was the one who faced her one on one. She was voiced by Susan Silo.X-Men: The Animated SeriesEmma is a member of the Inner Circle of Hellfire Club alongside with her other fellow members who tried to use Mastermind to confuse Jean Grey and make the situation worse while Jean is under the influence of the Phoenix. She was a powerful telepath that can even alter the mind of Professor X with the aid of Cerebro. She later reappeared captured alongside other telepaths. She was voiced by Tracey Moore.Wolverine and the X-MenEmma appears as one of the main characters in the series, voiced by Kari Wahlgren.Uninvited, Emma Frost first appears at the mansion's front door seeking to join the X-Men. Wolverine refuses her, but is eventually forced to accept her into the team since she is the only telepath available and therefore the only one able to operate Cerebro. She successfully located Charles Xavier's lifeless body in the heart of Magneto's Genosha, but later attempts to locate Jean Grey were less successful. In an effort to remain on the team she informs Cyclops that “given time I could locate her, but if [Wolverine] has his way I’ll be gone tomorrow”. Frost is intelligent and tactical, and is an extremely powerful telepath. Her first telepathic fight as an X-Man was against the Shadow King. Storm had been manipulated into believing that Africa was burning and used her mutant powers to put the fires out. However, in reality she was tearing the country apart with rain storms and tornadoes.It was Emma's telepathic powers that saved Storm's life, the whole continent of Africa, and eventually defeat the Shadow King. Later on she was able to disable Psylocke's telepathic attacks with relative ease. Despite Wolverine's initial distrust of Frost, he has grown to accept her as a permanent member of the team.Her battle against the Shadow King and her success to mend some of Wolverine's memories of his time in Weapon X have earned his respect. However, she is extremely secretive and on one occasion lied to Wolverine about Forge's availability. She also appears to be fond of Cyclops, often watching him from afar. Cyclops is still depressed for the loss of Jean Grey. Emma offered to delete his memories of Jean and make him normal again.Emma betrays the X-Men after Jean is found. It is revealed that she has been working for the Inner Circle in an attempt to destroy the Phoenix Force. The Inner Circle then double crosses Emma and tries to use the Phoenix for their own ends. It, however proves too powerful for them to control. When the Phoenix Force is released and is searching for Jean, Emma traps it in her body, transforms into diamond and projects it into the atmosphere where it cannot find a host. She manages to ask Cyclops to forgive her before shattering and seemingly dies.X-Men (2012)In the Japanese X-Men anime, Emma is found to by the Astonishing X-Men (Beast, Cyclops, Logan and Storm) in a pod next to Armor in the U-Men Lab. It is revealed that Emma was kidnapped by the U-Men while searching for Hisako, her missing student. After copping the blame for forcing Jean Grey to commit suicide as Dark Phoenix, Emma joins the X-Men as to continue her tutelage of Armor. She even goes as far as allowing Xavier to view her mind and broadcast her life to the X-Men to gain Cyclops' trust.As the series goes on she is shown to care for younger mutants and enjoys teaching the next generation, a more motherly aspect - but still retains her ever-observant and cunning personality.Whilst Emma is shown to use both her Telepathy and Diamond Form, she lacks any of the hand-to-hand combat training and relies heavily on her Diamond Form to take a more defensive position in the team. She is voiced by Kaori Yamagata in the Japanese version, and by Ali Hillis in the English dub.
Film 
Generation XEmma Frost was played by Finola Hughes in a made-for-TV adaptation of Generation X on FOX. Emma was a mentor for the Generation X alongside with Banshee. Together with her team, they fought a mad scientist who wants to gain psychic powers. She also handled a group of mutants called Hellions who died and blamed herself. It caused her to be strict to the team and makes sure they are working good. Before she became a teacher, she works on a dream machine project and gained rivalry with Russel Tresh.X-Men Origins: WolverineEmma appears briefly in this film and is played by Tahyna Tozzi. Emma is present in Wolverine's past and she is a mutant with the ability to turn her body in diamond form. She does not display telepathy. She is shown as the sister of Silver Fox and was a prisoner of William Stryker trying to free herself.(Note: It was later "revealed" that Emma of X-Men Origins: Wolverine wasn't the real Emma Frost. If there is any connection between Emma (X-Men Origins: Wolverine) and Emma Frost (X-Men: First Class) is still unknown.)X-Men: First ClassEmma Frost appears in the 2011 film, X-Men: First Class and is portrayed by January Jones. She is shown to be the White Queen of the Hellfire Club lead by Sebastian Shaw. She is first shown when Moria MacTaggert sneaks into the Hellfire Club's quarters looking for Colonel Hendry. She is next seen going to meet with a Russian general who Shaw is supposed to meet. Professor Xavier and Magneto also infiltrate the building Emma is in and confront her. She is then captured and taken to the CIA headquarters. Months later, Magneto and his Brotherhood free her from her prison and ask her to join them, to which she agrees. She displays incredibly impressive telepathy defeating and blocking out Charles Xavier several times. She also possesses her diamond form which seems to augment her strength (she was able to send Erik flying into the sea with a single blow) and renders her immune to telepathy. However it does not seem to provide her any physical durability as Erik almost killed her by strangling her with the metal railing of a bed while she was in diamond form (a close up clearly shows it beginning to shatter around the area the pressure was applied, her neck) and Charles had to persuade him not to kill her, which he surely would have. In this incarnation, Emma seems to play more of a henchman-type second-in-command role rather than more of an equal power player as she was in the comics when she was the White Queen.
Video Games
X-Men (Konami)Emma Frost appears as a boss character in the Japanese X-Men arcade game, which was based on the Pryde of the X-Men pilot. She is faced on Island M, and is infamous for her mistranslated line "The White Queen welcomes you to die!" Like in the pilot, she is able to attack her opponents with mental bolts of some kind, but also has a powerful slap as well.X-Men LegendsEmma Frost is a playable character in X-Men Legends. She is unlocked as a Non-Playable character (NPC) after the Nuclear Power plant level where you save Colossus. She only becomes playable after Alison speaks with her and Charles Xavier at the Mansion. The depiction of Emma in this game is quite faithful to her comic book counterpart, aside from her attraction to Professor X rather than Cyclops. Her active powers in the game are: Confuse, Fear, Psychic Shell and Psychic Bedlam. She is voiced by Bobby Holliday.X-Men Legends II: Rise of ApocalypseShe also appeared in the sequel as a NPC who helped the X-Men in their mission in Madri Temple after she telepathically contacted Professor X about the Stepford Cuckoos starting rebellion in Madri. She was taken for her harmonic DNA by Sinister. She was used to make Apocalypse stronger for the last battle. She is voiced by Bobby Holliday again.Marvel: Ultimate AllianceEmma is one of the X-Men who are defeated byduring the CG video "Doomsday". At the end of the movie, Doom realizes he can use his new powers to corrupt the heroes' souls and turn them into brainwashed slaves. Later in the game, the player must face some of these corrupted heroes. Although Emma is one of the four characters we actually see being brainwashed by Doom, the player doesn't fight her later in the game.X-Men DestinyEmma Frost is one of the non-playable characters and is introduced as the leader of the X-Men alongside Cyclops.She uses her telepathy to guide the player through the game regarding how to use their powers, where to go next, and at times she'll physically meet up with you. Like when defeating Cameron Hodge the first time or when subduing Wolverine. Kari Wahlgren reprises her role from the animated series.Marvel Heroes Online (2012-Present)Emma Frost is a playable hero character in Gazillion's Free To Play MMO. Not much is known about the game bar for the fact it is based on Diablo's core gameplay aspects.The MMO's story is being written by Brian Michael Bendis.Her bio says:For most of her life, Emma Frost thought only of her own needs and goals, seeing humanity as inferior to her own mutant race. She used her intelligence, charm, and telepathic powers to accumulate great wealth. Soon she joined the mysterious Hellfire Club, a group secretly dedicated to world domination. For years she helped that group gain the political and economic influence it desired, often clashing with the X-Men.Over time, however, Emma came to see the teaching of young mutants as her true calling. Eventually she allied with Professor Charles Xavier and her former enemies, becoming a full-fledged member of the X-Men and a teacher at the Xavier School.She was released in several costumes.She is voiced by Kari Wahlgren.Marvel Super Heroes Squad OnlineEmma is a playable character in the game. There are hints of the love triangle between her, Cyclops and Jean Grey, they are shown in several of these characters power manifestations. She is voiced by Grey DeLisle.Her description says: Dressed in all white with a body that can change into diamond, Emma Frost has a hot temper to go with her cool personality.Marvel Avengers AllianceEmma was the second character to be released as a recruitable character in the Special Operation "Long Live the Queen" in her classic X-Men costume. After a while she became permanently reclutable. She was also part of the Special Operation "Avengers Vs X-men" as part of the Phoenix Five (With her alternate costume released too). Is the agent play in the Avengers side she is featured as a boss.Her bio says: Born wealthy and privileged, Emma Frost didn't need her mutant powers to succeed in the world, but she still took advantage of them. Her telepathic powers won her an invitation to the notorious HellFire Club, where she rose in rank to become the White Queen. There she started a school for mutants and clashed with the X-Men with her contentious curriculum. After a tragedy killed most of her students, Emma decided that teaching for the Xavier School for Gifted Youngsters and joining the X-Men was a better use of her gifts.Marvel: War Of HeroesEmma is featured in several of the cards on the mobile game Marvel: War of Heroes. Her cards are:
[Diamond Lady] Emma Frost
[I'll Take Romance] Emma Frost
[Conglomerate] Emma Frost
[White Queen] Emma Frost
[Phoenix Fire] Emma Frost
[Be Mine] Emma Frost
[Teacher] Emma Frost
[In Touch] Emma Frost[Diamond Lady] Emma Frost[I'll Take Romance] Emma Frost[Conglomerate] Emma Frost[White Queen] Emma Frost[Phoenix Fire] Emma Frost[Be Mine] Emma Frost[Teacher] Emma Frost[In Touch] Emma Frost
Lego Marvel Super Heroes
Emma Frost appears as a playable character in the Lego Marvel Super Heroes video game. She is unlocked when you guide a student through a maze.X-Men: Battle of The AtomEmma is featured in the mobile card game "X-Men: Battle of the Atom" based on the comic book story of the same name. Her cards are:
Emma Frost
[Future] Emma Frost
[White Queen] Emma Frost
[Human High Council] Emma Frost
[X-Society] Emma Frost
[New Xavier School] Emma Frost
[Phoenix] Emma Frost
[Utopia Defender] Emma Frost
[Phoenix Ember] Emma Frost
[New Xavier School] X-MenEmma Frost[Future] Emma Frost[White Queen] Emma Frost[Human High Council] Emma Frost[X-Society] Emma Frost[New Xavier School] Emma Frost[Phoenix] Emma Frost[Utopia Defender] Emma Frost[Phoenix Ember] Emma Frost[New Xavier School] X-MenShe is also featured as a boss in the Hellfire Mission.Marvel Future FightEmma is a playable character in the game. She is a blast type.Marvel Contest of ChampiosEmma is a playable character in the game. She is a Mutant type of champion.
Merchandise

ToyBiz produced a White Queen figure for the Generation X line.
Emma Frost was featured in the HeroClix figure game.
Emma Frost was featured in Hasbro's Marvel Legends line as part of the Annihilus Build-a-Figure wave. A diamond-skinned variant was later released as a Toys "R" Us exclusive.
An updated Marvel Legends figure of Emma Frost was later included in the Puck Build-a-Figure wave.
Emma Frost was featured in Hasbro's Super Hero Squad line.
Emma Frost was featured in Hasbro's Marvel Universe line.
Diamond Select released an Emma Frost figure as part of the Marvel Select line. Like the Marvel Legends figure, a diamond-skinned variant was also produced.
Emma Frost was featured in Diamond Select's Minimates line.
Kotobukiya produced an Emma Frost statue for their Bishoujo line.
Additionally, companies like Eaglemoss Publications, Bowen Designs, Diamond Select and Sideshow Collectibles have produced statues, busts and figurines depicting Emma's likeness.
Funko produced an Emma Frost bobblehead for their Pop! line.
Emma Frost in her black Marvel NOW! outfit was featured in Hasbro's Marvel Legends line as a Walgreens exclusive.
A classic version of Emma Frost was released by Hasbro as part of the Marvel Legends SDCC Hellfire Club box set.ToyBiz produced a White Queen figure for the Generation X line.Emma Frost was featured in the HeroClix figure game.Emma Frost was featured in Hasbro's Marvel Legends line as part of the Annihilus Build-a-Figure wave. A diamond-skinned variant was later released as a Toys "R" Us exclusive.An updated Marvel Legends figure of Emma Frost was later included in the Puck Build-a-Figure wave.Emma Frost was featured in Hasbro's Super Hero Squad line.Emma Frost was featured in Hasbro's Marvel Universe line.Diamond Select released an Emma Frost figure as part of the Marvel Select line. Like the Marvel Legends figure, a diamond-skinned variant was also produced.Emma Frost was featured in Diamond Select's Minimates line.Kotobukiya produced an Emma Frost statue for their Bishoujo line.Additionally, companies like Eaglemoss Publications, Bowen Designs, Diamond Select and Sideshow Collectibles have produced statues, busts and figurines depicting Emma's likeness.Funko produced an Emma Frost bobblehead for their Pop! line.Emma Frost in her black Marvel NOW! outfit was featured in Hasbro's Marvel Legends line as a Walgreens exclusive.A classic version of Emma Frost was released by Hasbro as part of the Marvel Legends SDCC Hellfire Club box set.