
Wildstorm Universe

The Authority
However, it was not to be. Less than a year after Apollo and Midnighter's retirement, nearly the entire Stormwatch team was slaughtered in an Aliens/Stormwatch Crossover. Jenny Sparks would develop her vision for a new team, known as the Authority, and she approached Apollo and Midnighter about joining. Reluctantly (and because of Apollo), Midnighter agreed. It was then that he would take his place as "Night's Bringer of War," on a team consisting of Apollo, Swift, Jack Hawksmoor, the Engineer, the Doctor, and Jenny Sparks. His relationship with Apollo would only be hinted at until the Regis story arc, in which it was confirmed they were a couple.Of the many foes Midnighter faced with the Authority perhaps the most life-altering was the very governments they sought to improve. At one point, the political powers of Earth attempted to overpower the Authority and replace them with The New Authority, consisting of Surgeon, Teuton, Machine, Last Call, Rush, Street, and Union Jack. Of his team members, only Midnighter (along with baby Jenny Quantum) managed to escape capture and evade detection. His skills would ultimately free and save all the other original members of the Authority, though it very nearly cost him his life. Midnighter is notable for being one of the few gay superheroes in print. After his near death at the hands of government creation Seth (where even his backup heart was ripped from his chest), he married his longtime partner, Apollo, in a civil service on the The Carrier. Together, they adopted the reincarnation of Jenny Sparks, Jenny Quantum, as their daughter.Recently, even this happiness has been short lived. Midnighter was manipulated into believing that an Apollo from the future contacted him to tell him how the the Authority would ultimately become the very world oppressors they sought to overcome. This information prompted Midnighter to leave the team, as well as his husband and daughter, and to work alone for a time. However, it was discovered he was being controlled by a still-living Henry Bendix, who then set him in battle against his previous team members after getting on board The Carrier. Fortunately, Bendix's control over Midnighter was broken by the combined efforts of Jenny Quantum and Engineer, freeing him to once again join the team and be with Apollo. 
Time-Traveling
Midnighter currently has his own series in which he works apart from The Authority. In the first three issues he was kidnapped and forced to travel back in time to kill Hitler by a man named Paulus who replaced his second heart with a remote controlled bomb. A simple task that got very complicated when few officers from Temporal Police Department tried to stop him. He was captured by them, but forced their ship to crash in 1945. He teamed with them to get back to his time where he threatened Paulus with the death of his younger self. He then battles a mad scientist who experimented on stray animals. He defeated him and returned a missing cat to a young girl who asked for his help. He then had the scientist experiment on criminals he captured and then adopted a cyborg dog from the scientist.
Midnighter Remember His Past
The Midnighter became increasingly unhappy with not knowing his original identity or even remembering a normal human life, so Jenny Quantum helped a hacker friend of the Midnighter's discover that his true name was Lucas Trent, born in Harmony, Indiana on July 14, 1967. When the Midnighter tried returning to his hometown and his old identity, he ended up battling paramilitary superhumans who wanted to take over America. But he also became certain he never had been Lucas Trent, because Trent was remembered by everyone as a nice and decent man and the Midnighter knew himself to be a gleeful killer through and through. To Jenny's surprise, however, he wasn't angry with her for the deception; instead, he returned to Harmony to impersonate Trent further and practice being a normal person in a normal daily life. He also recently teamed up with the hero Grifter.
World's End
Due to the events following the assault by clones of the High the planet is now in a ruined state. Midnighter along with the rest of the Authority have been stranded in London (now Unlondon) due to the death of the Carrier. He spends his time bringing refugees to the Carrier's corpse as it is the closest thing to a safe location. He has to protect them from several threats such as diseased super beings called Incubites. When Apollo is infected by the Warhol virus (now calling itself the Burn), he attacks the Authority, seeking to use the doors to the Bleed as a way of spreading the Burn throughout the multiverse. The team manages to freeze him in order to prevent this from happening. Midnighter has a dream where a Century Baby named Gaia asks him to find her, telling him that she knows how to save Apollo. When he reaches the island that Gaia is stranded on, he finds himself under attack by a god-like force of nature called the Green Man, who turns out to be the former Doctor driven insane by the planet's demise. With the help of the team, Gaia manages to take control of the island and subdue the Doctor so that she can heal him. She gives Midnighter a magical apple and tells him to feed it to the infected Apollo. When he does so, Apollo is cleansed of the Burn and restored to normal.
Post-Flashpoint: Earth-0

The Dark Side
Stormwatch tries to convince Apollo to join their team, however Apollo is reluctant to do so and that is when Midnighter appears and dispatches the three Stormwatch members that were there, namely Martian Manhunter, Jack Hawksmoor and the Projectionist. He then reveals that he has been following Apollo for quite some time now and has taken an interest upon him because of his power set and the way that he deals with threats. He then offers him a deal of partnership. Martian Manhunter then reveals that he was pretending to be out cold so that he could get a grasp of the situation and the threat presented, and tells the duo that Stormwatch could use both Apollo and Midnighter. He explains that Stormwatch is not in fact a regular superhero team and that the team has little qualms with killing.During this time Adam-One shows up through a door and offers Midnighter a place on the team as well, telling him that his skills are wasted against thugs and criminals when he could be defending the planet with Stormwatch. However, at the same time that this was happening Harry Tanner was up on the moon trying to deal with a alien threat, called the Scourge of Worlds that sent pieces of the moon as meteorites into Earth's atmosphere. This cut short the conversation and Apollo agreed to go deal with the meteors while Midnighter went to deal with a fallen meteor that turned into a rampaging antibody. When they arrived at the scene the antibody proved troublesome and absorbed all the members of Stormwatch present, with the exception of Midnighter. Apollo soon joins him and the two of them, in conjuction with the Projectionist [who was at the base] manage to come up with a successful plan to free their 'team members'. With this done, it allowed Hawksmoor to lead half of the team into an ancient formerly-underground city called Alba Umbra and from there allow Jenny Quantum to power up one of the cities' artifacts to turn the monster into glass.When the team returns to the Eye they discover that the Shadow Cabinet has chosen the Projectionist to be Stormwatch's new leader. While this is going on, Apollo and Midnighter slip away to explore the HQ. Midnighter tells Apollo that the two of them would be more effective together than as components of Stormwatch, since their goals differ greatly from the team's. There is a sudden emergency distress signal from hyperspace, and Apollo leaves to investigate it. Midnighter realizes that the emergency was just a distraction orchestrated by Harry Tanner so that he could steal the Stormwatch data caches. The two fight, with Tanner struggling to land a blow because of Midnighter's ability to predict every one of his moves. Just then, they are interrupted by Projectionist, whom Harry grabs and pulls into hyperspace with him, escaping after setting off a bomb on the alien horn that destroys the Eye. The force of the explosion throws Midnighter into hyperspace, where he lingers for a few death-defying moments until he is rescued by Apollo and taken back to the reformed Eye to be treated for his exposure to the hazardous environs of hyperspace. A short while later, he signs up with Stormwatch after a conversation with the Engineer, managing to persuade Apollo to join as well.
Midnighter Attacks Grifter
In his first mission as a member of Stormwatch, Midnighter is tasked with investigating a strange disturbance originating from the wreckage of the Eye in the Himalayas. When he arrives on site, he discovers that Cole Cash aka Grifter, the world's most wanted man, has also been investigating the crash. When Grifter lets slip that he knows about the Daemonite invasion of Earth, Midnighter attacks him, telling him that he cannot allow Grifter to live now that he knows what was supposed to be privileged information. Grifter struggles to fend off the attack, and manages to stun Midnighter by setting off a flare in his face. But even while temporarily blinded, Midnighter is still able to outmatch Grifter, who falls into a crevasse in the snow and is presumed dead (though he manages to save himself at the last moment). Finding nothing of significance in the wreckage, Midnighter opens a door to the Eye and leaves the Himalayas. After he leaves, the prisoner of the Eye slowly reveals himself: the Daemonite known as Helspont, who has plans for the invasion of Earth, plans that involve none other than Superman himself.
The Rise of The Demon
Midnighter convinces Apollo to accompany him to London, supposedly on a date. However, a fight breaks out, and it is revealed Midnighter had other things in mind. It turns out that Midnighter used to call London his home and served as it's protector. A nearby apartment building was a hotspot for strange happenings, which he was never able to resolve, and he came back to check up on things. This recent fight is just the most recent in a long line of disturbing and violent occurences in the building, including murder, rape, and torture. He and Apollo suit up to get to the bottom of things, and come across a boy named Lazarus scrawling pictures of demons on the walls using his parent's blood. As they enter the room, the boy, apparently unable to hold it back any longer, calls forth the demon Etrigan. Turns out he had been buried under the building, and it was his influence causing all the violence in the area. Midnighter attacks Etrigan, thinking he can take him while he's still weak, but Etrigan knocks him out with one punch. Apollo, thinking Midnighter dead, angrily attacks Etrigan, until the rest of Stormwatch shows up. Midnighter gets up, not dead after all, and joins in the attack, until they are able to drive Etrigan off. Apollo and Midnighter happily reunite after the fight is over, only to have the Engineer announce that a new rule is going into effect forbidding any romantic relationships between members. Apollo and Midnighter decide later to ignore the rule. Apollo suggests leaving Stormwatch together, but Midnighter declines, saying he feels he's found a home with Stormwatch and that he feels he needs the structure they provide.  
Betrayal
Since escaping from The Eye after their last encounter, Harry Tanner set up a base in Antarctica, while putting together an elaborate plan to take down Stormwatch from the inside. He has a special plan in mind for Midnighter, however.His plan involves tricking small time criminal The Fox into acting as a sort of dimensional portal, which Harry uses to acquire technology needed to disguise himself as one of the Shadow Lords. Harry appears on the Eye of the Storm disguised as a Shadow Lord, and tells Stormwatch that they are to take a more proactive approach to the superbeings on Earth, and tells them to kill Superman, Batman, and Green Lantern, saying they are "a threat" presumably in the hopes that Stormwatch will kill themselves in the attempt, or at least weaken them. The Projectionist also makes a return, and it is revealed that Harry has somehow implanted a false memory in her mind of him dying in an explosion, and plotting against Stormwatch with Midnighter. Midnighter sees through Harry's disguise, and tells the others that Harry is trying to trick them, but to no avail. Harry tells them to arrest Midnighter, who abducts Projectionist and heads out a Door into Antarctica in an effort to uncover evidence that Harry is the 'Shadow Lord'. While tracking Midnighter, he kills several researchers, which he uses to frame Midnighter for murder, and convince Stormwatch that he needs to be killed. 
Grayson
After Midnighter left the Stormwatch, he become an operative of the Gardener locating the stolen body parts of Paragon. While doing this he would have run ins with Agent 37 of Spyral. In one of these run ins Midnighter kidnapped Dick and brought him to the God Garden, where he would use the Garden’s technology to remove Dick’s implants and place it within himself. Stealing the implant proved to be a mistake as Dick was able to use his knowledge of the implants to beat the Midnighter. Midnighter would end up teaming up with Dick to stop the Fist of Cain from using Paragon’s brain to incite a riot at a peace rally in Tel-aviv. After preventing the terrorist attack Midnighter soon parted ways with the Gardener because she had knowledge of the attack but choose not to intervene.