
Wildstorm:

Super-Human Abilities
Midnighter's abilities were designed by Bendix to give him an all encompassing advantage in close-combat and tactical scenarios. He has superhuman strength, reflexes (and moving speed when necessary), healing, senses, aim and various other enhancements. He is said to have multiple redundant systems to keep him fighting in the worst of conditions. One example of this is a backup heart. Midnighter can also turn his pain receptors on and off so he can keep fighting when the pain would stop a normal man. The pain is not totally cut off though, so his healing factor is also very helpful. He's fought with, and healed from, a broken neck, broken limbs, holes through his chest, having his whole body set on fire, contracting various viruses (including AIDS) and other things. He can also function perfectly in anaerobic environments when necessary.Midnighter's body has been altered to give him inhuman balance as well as faster nerve endings so he can move and react quicker than any human and many super humans. He normally moves at slightly above human speed but can move so fast that enemies with super speed can't see him. Midnighter's senses allow him to detect any modifications or powers in anyone he looks at, as well as how they work, so he can defeat them. His other senses are so powerful that to trick him, his creator needed to find an alien that could not only change its appearance, but its scent and DNA.Midnighter's most famous ability is his power to predict how a battle will happen before it starts. His fight implants include a combat computer that allows him to run through a given combat situation millions of times in his mind, almost instantly covering nearly every possible result before the first punch is even thrown. He uses this information to predict the actions and or reactions of his foes, counteracting their moves almost before they even think to make them. According to Midnighter, his powers also work by letting him see the outcome of the battle he wants, and working backwards, following the right steps to get there.He liked to begin fights by announcing all of this, but got bored enough with the speech to have it printed on business cards, which he can leave for absent opponents (or kill them by throwing the sharp-edged cards).In the tour-de-force issue Midnighter #7, we see his world view in action as the issue begins at the final scene when he returns from battle to kiss Apollo, and each following page takes us further back in the actions that got him there--ending on the last page with his initial speech:"See, I'm one of those jerks who always skips ahead to the last page of a book before he reads it. I find a closing scene I love, then work my way back to the beginning to figure out exactly how it all went down. It's the same way my crazy brain processes every possible outcome for a battle before the first punch is even thrown. So let's cut to the chase, shall we? I've already run through a trillion potential versions of this entire day in my head, including the spectacularly banal conversation we're about to have. And I've settled on the finale that leaves your sick operation toppling like a house of cards...and me making love to my husband."
Post-Flashpoint: Earth-0:

Accelerated Probability
In the new 52 Midnighter's ability to predict the outcome of any situation still exists, but appears to have been supplemented by a form of precognitive enhanced tactical awareness as well as enhanced knowledge. He is able to finish other people's sentences before they have thought about it, and when Stormwatch's map of alien threats to Earth materialized in front of him and Apollo, he instantly knew what it was. He's even able to defeat Grifter,despite the fact that he was blind.When he fought one of The Hidden people, it was noted that even when one of the neanderthal men was in his feral state. Midnighter seemed to have known what moves he could make before he even made them. He has shown the ability to read body movements and correctly discern what a person's power is (such as Harry Tanner's ability to lie and be believed). He's able to see through Tanner's lies and was able to figure out that The Shadow Lord was Harry (even though everyone else was fooled,and didn't believe him at first). He has significant resistance to telepathic attacks, as he was able to resist the Scourge of Worlds' attempt to use the Martian Manhunter's telepathy on him (to an extent). He mentions that he has carbon-fibre muscles that presumably enhance his strength. Midnighter has easily snapped the Vitruvian Man's neck, broke Apollo's nose and also caused Martian Manhunter pain (and drew blood). He is fast enough to dodge a bullet shot by Grifter at point blank range after it was fired, he also knocked out Martian Manhunter, Jack Hawksmoor and The Projectionist before they could react. Being fast enough to easily move out of the way of machine gun fire from a terrorist (that had the gun directly on him) before the terrorist could react. Harry Tanner reputed to be the world's greatest swordsman, struggled to land even a single blow on Midnighter since the latter could predict every move he would make. After a few seconds of fighting, Midnighter immediately knew what Harry's power was. Midnighter has demonstrated the ability to move so stealthily that the Manhunter and Hawksmoor could not hear or sense his stalking them until it was too late. His suit (which is a carbon armor) enhances his durability as he was able to survive unaided in hyperspace for a while, it also seems to be resistant to energy weapons (such as being shot by Grifter's energy gun yet having no visible signs of damage. Even being resistant to Harry Tanner's energy blades). He also regularly carries knives, throwing stars, grenades, billy clubs & nightsticks etc. He also seems to have some sort of healing factor since his lungs and inner organs healed from the effects of Hyper space. He's also taken hits from a bloodlusted Apollo and Skallox (and stayed conscious). He's drawn blood from Etrigan with a punch, and dodged blasts from Etrigan with ease (something Etrigan even acknowledged).Due to still being relatively new to his older, Wildstorm counterpart, he has less feats (especially since he only appears in the new 52 for approximately 20 issues). Thus having a lot less to draw upon than his older counterpart.Other Versions
Daylighter
Daylighter is an alternate version of Midnighter from another universe. He and Pluto travel to the Wildstorm Universe to stop an idea-plague from killing everyone in the world.  
Daybreaker
Daybreaker is an alternate teenage Midnighter serving on a team called the Authoriteens. Gen13 are the only ones who have met this team.   