Messiah War
A thousand years in the future, X-Force has just arrived and encounters the thousand year old Wade Wilson.The team wants to know what happened, so Deadpool sneaks in his own story while getting to current events. He said that around 2034, he was hired to stop some very determined rebels, but when the threat of hand-held nuclear devices became apparent, he hid himself in an industrial freezer and was going to work for whichever side wasn't blown up... however destroyed buildings trapped Deadpool, blocking the freezer door with debris. He then spent the next several decades in this tomb going even more insane, until he was finally released by a band of gun-toting nomads, but he was then attacked by Stryfe. It turned out that after everyone blew themselves up, Stryfe came in and made himself the ruler of the world, so Deadpool decided to work for him. While fighting with Styfe, Deadpool is torn in half and is apparently killed (but he always finds a way to come back).
Earth-295: Age of Apocalypse
Deadpool is known as Dead Man Wade in the Age of Apocalypse, and was given his healing abilities by Apocalypse, not Weapon-X. Apocalypse then placed Dead Man Wade in his elite team known as the Pale Riders (along with Damask, Shadow King and Moonstar). Dead Man Wade was psychotically depressed and a serial killer. He wasn't only just constantly healing like 616 Deadpool, but he was constantly decaying too. This makes him wish for death for he is constantly in pain. His teammate Danielle liked to hurt him and see how he recovered, her actions made Damask killed her.When Apocalypse ordered the Pale Riders to destroy the sanctuary of Avalon he is betrayed by Damask. He was apparently killed by Nightcrawler, who teleported his head away from his body. Its revealed that Shadow King used him as host to enter Avalon and infected every being in the sanctuary in order to destroy the place.
Heroes Reborn/Counter-Earth
This is not an alternate reality, but an alternate earth located in Earth-616. This version of Deadpool never got cancer or went to the Weapon-X program. He joined the Avengers calling himself the Swordsman, and would later become their leader. He was calmer, level-headed, and stern. He also carried a wide array of swords with him. He eventually uncovers the fact that their universe is actually a lie. This sends him into a spiraling depression. He gains a massive amount of weight and becomes suicidal. He eventually decides to try to destroy their "pocket universe" as it is a mockery of their existence.
Millennial Visions
Millennial Visions' Deadpool was hired by Sebastian Shaw to kill the X-Men. Shaw was so happy with Deadpool's success that he hired Deadpool to kill all the mutants. He eventually tried, the last on his list were: Wolverine, Sunfire, Northstar, and Banshee, who were all hiding from Deadpool in Japan. He did fight with Wolverine but could not kill him, Wolverine did lose an arm in the fight however and Deadpool used his claw as a weapon thereafter. Deadpool kept pictures and souvenirs from all of his targets. He is determined to finish off the rest of the world's mutants and get paid.
Earth-1610
Wade "Wadey" Wilson was a sergeant who after surviving death-defying action in the Wakanda Wars in the early nineties took the name Deadpool. Deadpool's true face had no skin and portions of his skull were missing, covered by a clear plastic helmet that made his face appear human-shaped when masked. He kidnapped the X-Men and Spider-Man and threw them on an island to hunt them down for a game-show. However, Deadpool was defeated and is last seen on the island holding his mask while the X-men fly away.
Earth-2149: Zombieverse Headpool
In the Zombiverse, Deadpool as most other heroes was turned into a zombie and is seen with other zombie super-being attacking the Silver Surfer. Later, zombie Deadpool is the first to be sent into the 616 universe and infects some of the members of the Florida initiative as part of an invasion plan, but is decapitated and his still living head is brought back for study at A.R.M.O.R. headquarters. He tagged along Simon Garth until he sailed to the Savage Land where he meets his 616 counterpart. This Deadpool seems almost identical to earth 616's. He is sarcastic, states he had a healing factor before getting infected but it doesn't work anymore, and has 616 Deadpool's sadistic sense of humor. He also breaks the fourth wall just like Earth 616 Deadpool does. This version of Deadpool is now a member of the Deadpool Corps. headpool has also been in shorts made by a low youtuber who made a perfect deadpool costume.
Golden Age Deadpool
This version of Deadpool is Frederick Wilson, the nephew of President Woodrow Wilson. Freddy is enlisted by his uncle in World War 1. In order to get out of service, Freddy smokes too much and tries to pretend to have mustard gas poisoning, but his plan fails and he damages his lungs. Forced to wear a breathing apparatus, he lived the next decade losing his mind in isolation and poverty, and spent much of his time watching cartoons at the theater. During World War 2, he's convinced by Nazis to become a German super soldier and is given increased physical abilities and rapid healing as well as increased resilience to wounds due to his scabbed and callous skin - he's dubbed "Weapon Swastika." He's then sent to steal Captain America's would-be shield during the forging process, but decides that he's not a traitor and goes rogue. This Deadpool also breaks the 4th wall, but sees the world as a cartoon and has knowledge of future lingo and trends.
Major Wade Wilson
In this universe Canada, the United States, and Mexico are all one entity known as "The United States of North America". In this universe Deadpool is a agent of S.H.E.I.L.D. and is in the military and reached the rank of "Major". It appears as if this Wade Wilson did not go through the Weapon X program or it was success for he is not scarred.
Lady Deadpool
One major difference in this universe is Deadpool is a woman named Wanda. Another difference is that it appears Captain America sided with the super human registration act (or something perverse yet similar) and was never assassinated. Lady Deadpool and 616 Deadpool team up to fight this universes Cap who winds up losing an arm which Zombie Deadpool eats.
The Deadpool Kid
Deadpool is a common bandit known as " The Deadpool Kid". 616 Deadpool doesn't have time for this nonsense and quickly disposes of this universe's him and then leaves with Zombie Deadpool's head accidentally dropping Captain America's infected arm returning to the 616 universe.
Kidpool
This Deadpool is still a kid and he attends Xavier school for the gifted boys. He's pretty much the most hated student in the school because of his personality. Kidpool was sent to the Danger Room (detention) with Cyclops because Kidpool gave Cyclops a wedgie and also Xavier wanted to prevent Kidpool from ruining a social with a girl school. Kidpool convinced Cyclops to escape the danger room and went to the social. When Cyclops saw Jean Grey dancing with Wolverine, Cyclops hired Kidpool to cause a distraction while Cyclops grabbed Jean away. After a distraction and a fight with a couple kid mutants Earth 616 Deadpool came in and took Kidpool away and had him joined Deadpool corps. Kidpool is now known as Tito by the rest of the Corps.
Deadpool Noir (Earth-90214)
There is also a Marvel Noir version of this character. Wade, a Canadian, joins the OSS during WWII, becoming a patriot with a few screws loose.
Deadpool Pulp
This reality is set in the 1950's and Deadpool works as a agent for the government. In this reality Deadpool works with General Cable who hired him to track down the rogue agent Outlaw and stop her. At first it's seen that Deadpool and Cable were war buddies from WWII, but in truth they were both brainwashed to become sleeper agents for General Stryfe and a secret organization with goal of world domination. When Stryfe ordered Deadpool to kill Senator John F. Kennedy he was able to break free of the mind control after which he saved Cable, stopped both Stryfe and Outlaw, and delayed the explosion of a nuclear device. While the city was saved the bomb blew up underwater, and while escaping, Deadpool was caught in the explosion which resulted in his scarring and cancer. In recovery Cable offered to help Deadpool and offered him to join a new program, Weapon X.
Earth-5021
Deadpool of Earth-5021 was unhinged from time and forced to become a member of the Exiles' rival reality-hopping group known as Weapon X, which performed morally challenging tasks. He acted similar to Earth-616 Deadpool, but was less erratic and more bloodthirsty. After being apparently killed by Sabretooth, he was put in stasis at the Timebrokers' base where he was freed by Dr. Strange whom realized that Deadpool was alive. Deadpool then killed him and attempted to take over the Timebroker's headquarters with other Weapon-X members. During the conflict, Mimic absorbed his healing factor powers (and couldn't get rid of it), and then was apparently killed by She-Hulk.
Earth-9997
Thing suspected that Deadpool took the identity of Daredevil, who is dead in the Earth X reality, and became a stuntman in a traveling show. The man denies being Deadpool though.
Earth-811
After the original X-Men are hunted down and killed by Agent Zero, Wolverine makes a new team of X-men. Deadpool is one of people recruited. Deadpool at first turns him down but after getting in several fights by the side of Wolverine he realizes it might be fun and he eventually changes his mind. He remarks about how Wolverine only wants him so he can be the "token human" of the team. This Deadpool makes several pop culture references just like earth 616 does. Wolverine beings to question his decision to extend an invitation but after Deadpool single-handedly takes down several assassins he knows he made the right choice. While training however Agent Zero again tracks them down and Deadpool is apparently killed when he melts into sort of goop after Agent Zero attacks him with a corrosive weapon that has an attribute that works best against those with a healing factor.
5 Ronin Universe
In this universe Deadpool is named Watari and is a homeless person, who many consider a fool. He spends most of his time getting drunk or wandering from place to place. Appearances aside, he was once a noble samurai that was left to die in a massacre. He alone survived and the experience left him deranged.He's also the only character to appear in almost every issue of the 5 Ronin series (with the exception of the Psylocke issue).
Death Mask
Death Mask is Deadpool's counter part in the universe that he Spider-Man and the Hulk are sucked into in their annuals. Deadpool originally thought that Death Wish, whom had a costume identical to Deadpool except it is green instead of red and acted just like Deadpool. When Deadpool and Death Wish met they became fast friends and ran around causing trouble. However, Deadpool found out that his actual counterpart was Death Mask, a genius and a sorcerer that ruled the criminal underground, and found out that Death Wish was actually an insane Victor Von Doom.
Deadpool MAX
In the Deadpool Max universe, Deadpool is a puppet for a secret government organization. They use him as an assassin to take out high profile targets. Normally, Deadpool wouldn't care to take out these targets, but his handler Officer Bob convinces him that the targets are all heads of the evil criminal organization Hydra. In this universe, nobody but Wade believes that Hydra exists, but Bob tells him they do to keep him under control. Wade was seduced by his "therapist", Dr. Inez, but he leaves her deciding that she's nuts, and not really a doctor. Cable is another agent of the organization, but has gone rogue and claims he's from the future. He tried to tell Deadpool the truth. After the director of the organization, Blind Al, is kidnapped by Domino, Bob talks Deadpool into hunting her down until they meet and he realizes that she's really Dr. Inez who changed her name, appearance, and is pregnant with his child. They go off to live together leaving behind his assassin life.
Deadpool Kills the Marvel Universe
In Deadpool Kills the Marvel Universe, Deadpool kills the Marvel Universe. The Watcher watches in horror as one of the most tasteless of worlds unfolds before him. In this universe, Deadpool is victim to a freak counselling session where Psycho Man attempts to use mind-control to force Wade into being his slave assassin. The Watcher claims that Psycho Man's plan succeeds in other universes and he uses an army of brain-washed heroes and villains to take over the world. But, something even worse happens in this particular universe. Psycho Man fails to overtake DP. And, although Psycho Man is murdered by DP (along with the rest of the employees and patients of the psychiatric institute), his attempt at mind control unlocks a new inner-voice. This voice continues to insist that DP kill the entirety of the Marvel Universe, to spare them from the misery they're put through for the entertainment of readers. Deadpool succeeds, continuously, breaking the fourth wall saying that this is what the readers wanted. Some of the notable scenes of the book are when Wade kills the Fantastic Four, Hulk, the Punisher, Taskmaster, Wolverine and the Watcher himself.At the end of the series, Man-Thing sacrifices himself as a portal to the comic book writer's dimension where he intends to follow through in killing not only his own Marvel Universe, but all of the Universes in existence. The last panel concludes with Wade standing near the bickering creators of Deadpool Kills The Marvel Universe, breaking the fourth wall with a threat (or is it a promise?) to find the reader "soon enough."
Deadpool Killustrated
After Deadpool kills the Marvel Universe for a while (in Deadpool Kills the Marvel Universe), he realizes that it would be a lot easier to go back and kill the inspiration for his own world. That way, instead of obliterating one comic book world after another, he could defeat the idea of each alternate character at once. He goes about willy-nilly through-out inspirational fictions until Sherlock Holmes appears with a group of classic heroes to defeat him along with his new-found partner Frankenstein. At the end of Deadpool Killustrated, Deadpool is seemingly lost in time after falling off of H. G. Well's time machine. What happens next? Deadpool Kills Deadpool.
Deadpool Kills Deadpool
In this series Deadpool and the Deadpool Corps are being hunted down by Dreadpool (Earth-12101). His mission is to kill every Deadpool in every reality believing that only he was a fictional character and that his alternate counterparts were his dreams made real. Dreadpool hunts down other Deadpools in order to ease his pain while the friends Earth-616 Deadpool seeks to save the multiverse and protect his kind.
Wade Wilson's War
In this Reality Deadpool was in a squad with Domino, Bullseye, and Silver Sable. They are all believed to be a form of super soldier who went on suicide missions in end being near death. Deadpool is in court after being convicted of causing a massacre in a town. Deadpool says it was a mission to take down a drug lord gone wrong and it ended with Bullseye and Silver Sable killed and Domino losing an eye. The court then told Wade that him and his squad were failed experiments who went insane thinking they were super heroes. They then had Domino come out to testify against Deadpool which ended being a trick the whole time. Domino killed the guards and Deadpool went to kill the judge revealing that he was hired to kill him and kill the drug lords and was arrested as a way of killing two birds with one stone. Then Deadpool and Domino escaped which then revealed that all of this wasn't real, that Wade Wilson is the man the judge explained earlier and that the judge was actually a worker for the mental asylum Wade was in.
Earth 615.9: Venompool
"What If Venom Possessed Deadpool?" is an issue that took place in the 1980s, Deadpool was hired by Galactus to kill the Beyonder for merging Galactus's body with M.O.D.O.K. So Deadpool accepted for the price of the continuity cube. Wilson tracked the Beyonder to a nightclub but liked the Beyonder's lifestyle and joined the party. While hanging with the Beyonder in a flying limo, Spider-Man came and asked for the Beyonder to remove the symbiote from his costume, but ended up getting shot by the limo driver. The Symbiote then left Parker's body and merged onto Wilson's making him Venompool.
Pandapool (Earth-TRN312)
In this reality, Deadpool is a giant panda called Pandapool. Pandapool joined Deadpool from Earth-616 to fight against the evil Deadpool Corps when Dreadpool killed Deadpools across the Multiverse. Pandapool was one of the latest survivors in the fight but at the end he was stabbed at his stomach and died.
Deadpool Dinosaur (Earth-TRN321)
Deadpool Dinosaur was a combination of Deadpool and Devil Dinosaur. He has a partner called Moon Boy, who seemingly has the powers of Moon Boy from Earth-78411. Deadpool Dinosaur has a giant saddle of his back and Moon Boy sits on his back and shoots enemies.rDeadpool Dinosaur fought with the evil Deadpool Corps in Deadpool Kills Deadpool and was killed by Earth-616's Deadpool.
Galactipool (Earth-TRN319)
Galactipool is a combination of Deadpool and Galactus. In Deadpool Kills Deadpool he was recruited by the evil Deadpool Corps as a last resukt and was killed by Lady Deadpool after she sacrificed herself and crashed The Bea Arthuron his head.
Deadpool The Duck (Earth-791021)
Deadpool The Duck is an alternate version of Deadpool who came from Duckworld (Earth-791021). He seemingly has the same powers as Deadpool from Earth-616.in Deadpool Kills Deadpool, he was convinced by Dreadpool to fight with the evil Deadpool Corps and kill every Deadpool in the world. He was killed with the rest of the evil Deadpool Corps.
Deadpool The Duck (Earth-616)
In the mini-series Deadpool the Duck, Deadpool was stuck in Howard The Duck's body and Howard The Duck's ghost was replaced with the ghost of Wolverine that was
Skulldozer the Magnificent
In a post-apocalyptic world where Beast's Krakoan experiments have overrun the world, Deadpool was a warlord of Staten Island working with an elderly Quentin Quire, who was sent into the past to retrieve their old team, X-Force, the version that acted as Krakoa's intelligence agency.