Film
X2: X-Men United
Deadpool's name is listed in William Stryker's files on Lady Deathstrike's computer.
X-Men Origins: Wolverine
Wade Wilson was played by Ryan Reynolds in his pre-mutated form (his mutated form was doubled mutely by Reynolds and stuntman Scott Adkins). The movie was faithful to the snarkiness and sarcasm of the character, but nothing was mentioned about his cancer nor his fourth-wall breaking. It's unknown if he was a mutant in the continuity of the film, but he displayed superhuman reflexes and skills, such as his ability to deflect bullets with his swords. He was a member of Team X, the Weapon X group of mercenaries along with Wolverine, Sabretooth, Wraith, Bolt, Agent Zero and Fred Dukes. It should be noted that in the movie, Wade Wilson does not wear the classic Deadpool outfit, but does wear a red T-shirt as a nod to his comic costume. Wade has guns here but is only seen using his katanas when in combat. Humorously, he claims that he used his katanas at his ex-girlfriend's wedding sometime before the events of the film. He is present during the mission to Africa, which is where the group first discovers adamantium. The mission ends with Wolverine leaving the group in disgust after Wade and the others inflict violence against a group of local civilians. Years later, William Stryker, the former leader of Team X, informs Wolverine that both Wade and Bolt had been murdered by Sabretooth, who has gone rogue and is now hunting down his former teammates.This turns out to be a lie, and in the film's final act, it is revealed that not only is Wade still alive, but that he has also been transformed into a superhuman killing machine known as Weapon XI. As Weapon XI, his mouth is stitched closed, all visible hair is gone, and stitch marks are still present, as he had been taken out of his procedure early to fight Wolverine. He is also infused with a variety of superpowers as a result of being given DNA injections from the various mutants Stryker had kidnapped. He is never exactly called Deadpool in the movie, however Stryker once refers to him as "the Dead Pool" in the movie. In the final battle he is able to shoot energy beams out of his eyes like Cyclops, is armed with retractable adamantium katanas from his arms, has a healing factor that heals otherwise mortal wounds in seconds, can teleport like Wraith, and is controlled technopathically through a computer by Stryker. His head is cut off by Wolverine but in a scene after the credits his charred hand is dragging itself towards the head in the rubble of the facility, whose eyes open in a conscious moan when the hand touches, hinting at the possibility of a spin-off or movie of his own.Though the pre-Weapon XI scenes were well received by fans, the film's version of Deadpool (as well as the movie itself) was highly controversial with fans, and garnered a great deal of backlash. Fans took to derisively calling the character "Barakapool" due to his resemblance to the Mortal Kombat character Baraka.
Deadpool (2016)
A solo movie starring Ryan Reynolds had been in development for years, though due to the negative reception to X-Men Origins: Wolverine, it was not related to that movie and was closer to the comics. A script was written as far back as 2010, and test footage for the movie was leaked in 2014. On September 18, 2014, Fox announced that the movie was officially in the works for a February 2016 release date.The movie additionally starred Ed Skrein as Ajax, Morena Baccarin as Vanessa, T.J. Miller as Weasel, Leslie Uggams as Blind Al, Stefan Kapicic as the voice of Colossus, Gina Carano as Angel Dust and Brianna Hildebrand as newcomer to the big-screen, Negasonic Teenage Warhead. The film was directed by Tim Miller from a script by Rhett Reese and Paul Wernick.The plot consisted mostly of a Deadpool origin story. After being diagnosed with very aggressive cancer, lovestruck mercenary, Wade Wilson, allows a clandestine criminal thinktank to do experiments on him with the promise of curing his cancer. Instead, they torture his X-gene into activating, which gives him a superhuman healing factor that is constantly working against the fast spreading cancer, causing his body and his mind to be unstable. Afraid of what his fianc' will say about his new appearance, Wade crafts the Deadpool identity to hunt down the people who took advantage of him.The film opened to positive reviews and was a massive hit at the box office.
Deadpool 2 (2018)
Due to the massive success of the first film, a follow-up was quickly greenlit. The sequel was released two years later, this time directed by John Wick helmer David Leitch, but with Reese and Wernick returning as writers.Taking place two years after the first film, Wade continues working as a mercenary who goes after the worst and most reprehensible targets. After discovering that the time-traveling warrior Cable plans to kill a mutant child named Russell Collins, Wade sets out to protect the child. In the process, he ends up forming a new team of heroes known as X-Force.In addition to the returning cast from the first film, the movie featured Josh Brolin as Cable, Zazie Beetz as Domino, Julian Dennison as Russell Collins, Jack Kesy as Black Tom Cassidy, Shioli Kutsuna as Yukio, Terry Crews as Bedlam, Lewis Tan as Shatterstar, Bill Skarsgard as Zeitgeist and Rob Delaney as Peter.
Abandoned Projects
Both Deadpool 3 and an X-Force spinoff seemed inevitable until the 2019 sales of Fox Studios to Disney. All active Marvel projects were put on hold and were assumed to be rebooted as part of the Marvel Cinematic Universe.
Deadpool 3
Kevin Fiege would confirm that Deadpool 3 was greenlit as both a Marvel Cinematic Universe production and R-rated. Soon after, Shawn Levy, who collaborated with Reynolds before, was announced as the director, although no date or production start was given.

Animation
X-Men: The Animated Series
In the 90's X-Men animated show produced by Fox, Deadpool never appears himself. However, there are three references to him. The first time is when Professor Xavier is exploring Sabretooth's mind, and Deadpool's face appears in Sabretooth's memories, along with some other people from the Weapon X program, including Wolverine, Maverick, and Omega Red.When Professor Xavier is possessed by Onslaught, he finds Wolverine on a subway. Wolverine is surprised to see the professor walking, until it's revealed to be Morph who transforms into several people from Wolverine's past, one of whom is Deadpool.
Hulk vs. Wolverine
Deadpool is one of Thornton's henchmen alongside other Marvel villains. One of their missions is to capture both Hulk and Wolverine to use them as deadly weapons in Weapon X. He often annoys Omega Red with his jokes. At the end (after the credits) Deadpool is seen emerging from the debris via Hulk destroying the lab. Deadpool then pats himself and exclaims : "Guys? Red.. that's right... I can't believe it! I'm alive! I'M ALIIIVE-" in which he is then stomped on by Hulk. The screen goes back to Deadpool as he whimpers a weak. "Ow..." He is voiced by Nolan North.
Ultimate Spider-Man
Deadpool makes three appearance in Ultimate Spider-Man. In the episode "Freaky", Deadpool's face is seen on a magazine cover. In the episode "The Iron Octopus", Deadpool appears as a character in the game Peter Parker is playing with Harry Osbourne. In the episode "Ultimate Deadpool", Deadpool arrives on the Helicarrier after SHIELD's computers have been compromised, Spider-Man arrives to see his team seemingly fond of and happy to see Deadpool, who left the group before he joined. Spider-Man and Deadpool then join forces to recover the stolen data from Taskmaster. But Spider-Man soon learns that Deadpool is a killer and mercenary who intends to steal the secret identities of the heroes from Taskmaster for the sole purpose of selling them on the black market himself.
X-Men: Anime
Deadpool makes a small cameo in the last episode saving the world from the powers of Xavier's son, Takeo.
Marvel Disk Wars: The Avengers
Deadpool appears in the series, voiced by Takehito Koyasu. He frequently breaks the fourth wall and jokes about how he should be the main character, as well as his desire to have an anime figure made in his likeness.
Marvel Future Avengers
Deadpool appears in the episode "It's Deadpool, Again" where he is hired to kidnap Hurricane and turn him over to the Masters of Evil. He was voiced by Takehito Koyasu in the Japanese original and by Jason Spisak in the English dub.

Video Games
X-Men Legends II: Rise of Apocalypse
Deadpool is a boss fight villain (being mind-controlled by Mr. Sinister) in the game and is unlocked as playable after beating the game. If Deadpool is in your party while you encounter him as a boss he has a special conversation with himself. Deadpool uses his katanas and guns for many basic attacks, and uses nitrogen grenades for his special attack in addition to his teleportation power.
Marvel: Ultimate Alliance (2006)
Deadpool is one of the heroes that aids in the defense of the Helicarrier after it's attack by the Masters of Evil. Deadpool is unlocked at the first save point, and can be used throughout the rest of the game. His attacks are mostly borrowed from Rise of Apocalypse, including his teleporting, but his new "X-Treme" attack is called "Merc's Revenge" where he leaps into the air and pelts foes with gunfire.In his simulator disk, Deadpool must fight through Murderworld, playing bumper-cars and defeating Arcade's clown minions before fighting a Dark Spider-Man clone, but not before having a discussion about internet dating websites. His special costumes are his updated look from the Cable & Deadpool series (dubbed "Assassin"), his Weapon X uniform, and the costume worn by his ultimate universe counterpart.
Marvel: Ultimate Alliance 2 (2009)
Deadpool goes to Washington D.C. for the cherry blossom festival, and becomes enraged when Titanium Man and his terrorists attack the city, and attacks the players. Once he is defeated he aids the heroes in rescuing Senator Stan Lieber from the armored super villain, and takes him back to safety while the Alliance continues after Titanium Man. His attacks are still based on guns, grenades and katanas, but his fighting system has been rebuilt from the ground up. Deadpool has unique dialogue with Black Widow and Cable, and his alternate costume is an unmasked variant of his Ultimate Universe costume. Deadpool is also aware that he is in the game, frequently mentioning the need for red orbs or whining about his low health bar, all while referring to you as "Player".
X-Men Origins: Wolverine
Deadpool is featured in the video game adaption of the Wolverine movie. He is the final boss fight (as Weapon XI) as he is in the film.
Marvel vs. Capcom 3
Deadpool is a playable character in Marvel vs. Capcom 3. He retains his manic mood as well as his awareness that he's in a video game, going so far as to beat his foes with his health-bar as one of his Super Combos. When he wins a match, he will sometimes insult the player for sitting on the couch while he's out risking life and limb in battle, and if he loses he'll yell at you for "pressing the wrong buttons!" Nolan North reprises his role as the character. If the player defeats Galactus using Deadpool, it is seen that Deadpool and an accomplice known only as "The Player" are on the run from the police after Deadpool caused an explosion while trying to add more power to the DJ and the Margarita machine. Deadpool also has a a theme song in Marvel vs. Capcom 3 that reflects his personality. It is one of the only songs in Marvel vs. Capcom 3 that has lyrics.
Spider-Man: Shattered Dimensions
Ultimate Deadpool appears as a boss in the game, but with a reimagined personality similar to his standard counterpart. He tries to kill Spider-Man on live TV with his army of ravenous fanboys in exchange for the tablet if Spider-Man wins. The tablet's power grant the ability to make three copies of himself. He will sing the Pokemon theme song if the player spends too long collecting Spider Tokens, also will make smart remarks if the player pauses too long. Nolan North reprises his role of the character.
Little Big Planet 2
In Little Big Planet 2, there was a second Marvel pack of costumes for Sackboy to wear. The second wave of Marvel costumes included many different characters, one of which being Deadpool. Deadpool's appearance on Little Big Planet 2 includes his mask, and the rest of his outfit, including two katanas strapped to his back. The outfit is priced at 1.99 and was released on January, 2013.
Marvel: Avengers Alliance
Deadpool is a playable character in the Facebook Marvel: Avengers Alliance game. His character can be bought for 135 Command Points, which is about 45 more then the average character price. Currently he has two costumes available the default being the "Classic Deadpool" costume and the alt being his grey and black "Uncanny X-Force" costume, which has a passive that is shared with Uncanny X-Force costumes for Wolverine, Psylocke, Archangel, and Fantomex. His attacks include: Sharp Pointy Things, Bang Bang Bang!, No Holds Barred, and Happy to See You. He is one of the few characters in the game with two unique Empowered-Iso8.
Deadpool (Video Game)
Deadpool is the star of his own videogame. The game is filled with quirky, gory, dark humor, mexican food, relentless fourth-wall breaking, swearing, sarcasm, explosions, and comic references. The game is an extremely loyal adaptation of the comics and the general style of writing for the character.
Lego Marvel Super Heroes
Deadpool is a playable character, with Nolan North reprising his role.
Marvel Heroes
Deadpool is once again a playable character.
Contest of Champions
Deadpool is one of the playable fighters in the game.Two new playable variants were later added to the game that included Uncanny X-Force Deadpool and Venompool.
Marvel Ultimate Alliance 3: The Black Order
Deadpool returns in the third Ultimate Alliance game, voiced again by Nolan North. He is affiliated with the X-Men in this game, and enters the plot after the Brotherhood's attack on the Xavier Institute ruins the tacos he was preparing.

Merchandise
Toy Biz released a Deadpool figure for the X-Force line. Strangely, he was listed as part of the "Evil Mutant" division of toys, even though he is not a mutant.
Toy Biz later released an alternate Deadpool figure for the X-Men/X-Force line. This one included an alternate, unmasked head depicting his scarred face.
Years later, Toy Biz released a Deadpool figure for the Marvel Legends line. A Doop figure was also included.
A Deadpool figure was released by Diamond Select as part of the Marvel Select line.
Hasbro released a Deadpool figure showing his maligned Weapon XI design for the X-Men Origins: Wolverine line. The same line also included a classic, comic-accurate Deadpool figure.
Hasbro released a few Deadpool figures for the Super Hero Squad line.
Hasbro released a figure of Deadpool in his X-Force uniform for the Marvel Legends line.
Hasbro also released a figure of Deadpool in his X-Men uniform as part of a Marvel Legends two-pack with Warpath.
Hasbro released a smaller figure of Deadpool as part of their Greatest Battles Comic Packs line. This figure came as part of a two-pack with Taskmaster.
Hasbro also released a Deadpool figure for the Marvel Mashers line.
Sideshow Collectibles released a sixth scale Deadpool figure.
Hot Toys released a Deadpool figure based on his solo movie incarnation.
Hasbro released another Marvel Legends Deadpool figure as part of the Juggernaut Build-a-Figure wave.
In 2018, Deadpool received two Marvel Legends waves devoted to him, as well as his allies and supporting cast. Another was released in 2020.
In 2020, Hasbro released a special Marvel Legends two-pack with the movie versions of Deadpool and Negasonic Teenage Warhead.
Hot Toys released a second movie Deadpool figure, this time for the sequel.
Hasbro released a Marvel Legends Venompool Build-a-Figure wave in 2020.Toy Biz released a Deadpool figure for the X-Force line. Strangely, he was listed as part of the "Evil Mutant" division of toys, even though he is not a mutant.Toy Biz later released an alternate Deadpool figure for the X-Men/X-Force line. This one included an alternate, unmasked head depicting his scarred face.Years later, Toy Biz released a Deadpool figure for the Marvel Legends line. A Doop figure was also included.A Deadpool figure was released by Diamond Select as part of the Marvel Select line.Hasbro released a Deadpool figure showing his maligned Weapon XI design for the X-Men Origins: Wolverine line. The same line also included a classic, comic-accurate Deadpool figure.Hasbro released a few Deadpool figures for the Super Hero Squad line.Hasbro released a figure of Deadpool in his X-Force uniform for the Marvel Legends line.Hasbro also released a figure of Deadpool in his X-Men uniform as part of a Marvel Legends two-pack with Warpath.Hasbro released a smaller figure of Deadpool as part of their Greatest Battles Comic Packs line. This figure came as part of a two-pack with Taskmaster.Hasbro also released a Deadpool figure for the Marvel Mashers line.Sideshow Collectibles released a sixth scale Deadpool figure.Hot Toys released a Deadpool figure based on his solo movie incarnation.Hasbro released another Marvel Legends Deadpool figure as part of the Juggernaut Build-a-Figure wave.In 2018, Deadpool received two Marvel Legends waves devoted to him, as well as his allies and supporting cast. Another was released in 2020.In 2020, Hasbro released a special Marvel Legends two-pack with the movie versions of Deadpool and Negasonic Teenage Warhead.Hot Toys released a second movie Deadpool figure, this time for the sequel.Hasbro released a Marvel Legends Venompool Build-a-Figure wave in 2020.
Bowen Designs released a Deadpool statue.
Gentle Giant Studios released a Deadpool bust.
Kotobukiya released a Deadpool statue depicting him in his Marvel NOW! costume as part of the ARTFX line. This was followed by a variant showing Deadpool in his X-Force uniform.
Sideshow Collectibles released a Deadpool statue, as well as a variant showing him in his X-Force uniform.
Factory Entertainment produced a statue of Deadpool riding in a toy rocket.
Diamond Select released a number of Deadpool products, including pair of statues depicting Deadpool and Cable and a Gamestop-exclusive unmasked Deadpool PVC statue.
Gentle Giant released Deadpool statues and busts, including a Roman-style bust depicting Wade as Julius Caesar.Bowen Designs released a Deadpool statue.Gentle Giant Studios released a Deadpool bust.Kotobukiya released a Deadpool statue depicting him in his Marvel NOW! costume as part of the ARTFX line. This was followed by a variant showing Deadpool in his X-Force uniform.Sideshow Collectibles released a Deadpool statue, as well as a variant showing him in his X-Force uniform.Factory Entertainment produced a statue of Deadpool riding in a toy rocket.Diamond Select released a number of Deadpool products, including pair of statues depicting Deadpool and Cable and a Gamestop-exclusive unmasked Deadpool PVC statue.Gentle Giant released Deadpool statues and busts, including a Roman-style bust depicting Wade as Julius Caesar.
Lego released a Deadpool minifig for their "Wolverine's Chopper Showdown" kit.
Funko released a Deadpool bobblehead as part of the Pop! line. A variant of Deadpool in his X-Men colors was later released, followed by another of Deadpool in his X-Force uniform.
Funko also released a Deadpool plush for the Fabrikations line.
Funko later released the "Deadpool Chimichanga Truck" toy, which once again was also released as an X-Force variant.
Medicom released a bear-inspired Deadpool for the Bearbrick line.Lego released a Deadpool minifig for their "Wolverine's Chopper Showdown" kit.Funko released a Deadpool bobblehead as part of the Pop! line. A variant of Deadpool in his X-Men colors was later released, followed by another of Deadpool in his X-Force uniform.Funko also released a Deadpool plush for the Fabrikations line.Funko later released the "Deadpool Chimichanga Truck" toy, which once again was also released as an X-Force variant.Medicom released a bear-inspired Deadpool for the Bearbrick line.