Deadpool’s debut marked a very different version of the character. He was a serious, grim, and professional assassin, with none of his personality trademarks intact. It would be in his solo book that his trademark character traits would finally emerge. These would include the dark randomness to his actions, his humorous bend, schizophrenic tendencies, his suicidal personal outlook, and his 4th wall breaking quips that would make him famous, along with his love for Mexican food. Recently, Deadpool has been trying to be a hero.Deadpool has been known for carrying a number of weapons and sometimes it is as if they appear from nowhere, this is often referred to as a 'magic satchel'. Blind Al is also a significant catalyst in Deadpool's personal development, as there is a clear love hate relationship which can vary from Blind Al being a mother-like figure to an abused hostage; sometimes within the same storyline.Starting with Daniel Way’s run, to depict Deadpool’s unstable sanity, creators started featuring POV shots of how cartoonish Deadpool saw the world and multiple narrative voices. He had at least three voices: Deadpool’s insane inner monologue, a saner narrative voice of reason, and his own out loud voice. All three would argue with each other. Eventually, the extra narrative box would be ret-conned as rival Madcap through a flashback where both were destroyed, and Wade absorbed him during his healing process.As Deadpool’s popularity increased, so did his prominence in the publishing line. In a meta twist, his popularity was included in-universe with Wade monetizing his own heroism. After earning the trust of both Wolverine and Captain America, he was recruited to X-men and Avengers adjacent teams. He started a friendship with Spider-Man and was often featured as a guest star across multiple books. After ruining his in-universe reputation during the Secret Empire event, Deadpool’s appearances dropped drastically. Ever since, his on-goings have failed to catch on, but he has found a regular main character role in the Krakoa version of X-Force. 