Action figures:
Toy Biz released a Deadpool figure for the X-Force line. Strangely, he was listed as part of the "Evil Mutant" division of toys, even though he is not a mutant.
Toy Biz later released an alternate Deadpool figure for the X-Men/X-Force line. This one included an alternate, unmasked head depicting his scarred face.
Years later, Toy Biz released a Deadpool figure for the Marvel Legends line. A Doop figure was also included.
A Deadpool figure was released by Diamond Select as part of the Marvel Select line.
Hasbro released a Deadpool figure showing his maligned Weapon XI design for the X-Men Origins: Wolverine line. The same line also included a classic, comic-accurate Deadpool figure.
Hasbro released a few Deadpool figures for the Super Hero Squad line.
Hasbro released a figure of Deadpool in his X-Force uniform for the Marvel Legends line.
Hasbro also released a figure of Deadpool in his X-Men uniform as part of a Marvel Legends two-pack with Warpath.
Hasbro released a smaller figure of Deadpool as part of their Greatest Battles Comic Packs line. This figure came as part of a two-pack with Taskmaster.
Hasbro also released a Deadpool figure for the Marvel Mashers line.
Sideshow Collectibles released a sixth scale Deadpool figure.
Hot Toys released a Deadpool figure based on his solo movie incarnation.
Hasbro released another Marvel Legends Deadpool figure as part of the Juggernaut Build-a-Figure wave.
In 2018, Deadpool received two Marvel Legends waves devoted to him, as well as his allies and supporting cast. Another was released in 2020.
In 2020, Hasbro released a special Marvel Legends two-pack with the movie versions of Deadpool and Negasonic Teenage Warhead.
Hot Toys released a second movie Deadpool figure, this time for the sequel.
Hasbro released a Marvel Legends Venompool Build-a-Figure wave in 2020.Toy Biz released a Deadpool figure for the X-Force line. Strangely, he was listed as part of the "Evil Mutant" division of toys, even though he is not a mutant.Toy Biz later released an alternate Deadpool figure for the X-Men/X-Force line. This one included an alternate, unmasked head depicting his scarred face.Years later, Toy Biz released a Deadpool figure for the Marvel Legends line. A Doop figure was also included.A Deadpool figure was released by Diamond Select as part of the Marvel Select line.Hasbro released a Deadpool figure showing his maligned Weapon XI design for the X-Men Origins: Wolverine line. The same line also included a classic, comic-accurate Deadpool figure.Hasbro released a few Deadpool figures for the Super Hero Squad line.Hasbro released a figure of Deadpool in his X-Force uniform for the Marvel Legends line.Hasbro also released a figure of Deadpool in his X-Men uniform as part of a Marvel Legends two-pack with Warpath.Hasbro released a smaller figure of Deadpool as part of their Greatest Battles Comic Packs line. This figure came as part of a two-pack with Taskmaster.Hasbro also released a Deadpool figure for the Marvel Mashers line.Sideshow Collectibles released a sixth scale Deadpool figure.Hot Toys released a Deadpool figure based on his solo movie incarnation.Hasbro released another Marvel Legends Deadpool figure as part of the Juggernaut Build-a-Figure wave.In 2018, Deadpool received two Marvel Legends waves devoted to him, as well as his allies and supporting cast. Another was released in 2020.In 2020, Hasbro released a special Marvel Legends two-pack with the movie versions of Deadpool and Negasonic Teenage Warhead.Hot Toys released a second movie Deadpool figure, this time for the sequel.Hasbro released a Marvel Legends Venompool Build-a-Figure wave in 2020.

Statues:
Bowen Designs released a Deadpool statue.
Gentle Giant Studios released a Deadpool bust.
Kotobukiya released a Deadpool statue depicting him in his Marvel NOW! costume as part of the ARTFX line. This was followed by a variant showing Deadpool in his X-Force uniform.
Sideshow Collectibles released a Deadpool statue, as well as a variant showing him in his X-Force uniform.
Factory Entertainment produced a statue of Deadpool riding in a toy rocket.
Diamond Select released a number of Deadpool products, including pair of statues depicting Deadpool and Cable and a Gamestop-exclusive unmasked Deadpool PVC statue.
Gentle Giant released Deadpool statues and busts, including a Roman-style bust depicting Wade as Julius Caesar.Bowen Designs released a Deadpool statue.Gentle Giant Studios released a Deadpool bust.Kotobukiya released a Deadpool statue depicting him in his Marvel NOW! costume as part of the ARTFX line. This was followed by a variant showing Deadpool in his X-Force uniform.Sideshow Collectibles released a Deadpool statue, as well as a variant showing him in his X-Force uniform.Factory Entertainment produced a statue of Deadpool riding in a toy rocket.Diamond Select released a number of Deadpool products, including pair of statues depicting Deadpool and Cable and a Gamestop-exclusive unmasked Deadpool PVC statue.Gentle Giant released Deadpool statues and busts, including a Roman-style bust depicting Wade as Julius Caesar.

Other:
Lego released a Deadpool minifig for their "Wolverine's Chopper Showdown" kit.
Funko released a Deadpool bobblehead as part of the Pop! line. A variant of Deadpool in his X-Men colors was later released, followed by another of Deadpool in his X-Force uniform.
Funko also released a Deadpool plush for the Fabrikations line.
Funko later released the "Deadpool Chimichanga Truck" toy, which once again was also released as an X-Force variant.
Medicom released a bear-inspired Deadpool for the Bearbrick line.Lego released a Deadpool minifig for their "Wolverine's Chopper Showdown" kit.Funko released a Deadpool bobblehead as part of the Pop! line. A variant of Deadpool in his X-Men colors was later released, followed by another of Deadpool in his X-Force uniform.Funko also released a Deadpool plush for the Fabrikations line.Funko later released the "Deadpool Chimichanga Truck" toy, which once again was also released as an X-Force variant.Medicom released a bear-inspired Deadpool for the Bearbrick line.