
Telepathy
Emma is a powerful and experienced telepath. Her psionic powers allow her to perform several feats such as mental communication, mind reading, mind control, induce paralysis, possession, hypnosis, pain stimulation, illusion casting, astral projection, psychic surgery, and by collecting ambient psionic energy she can create powerful psionic lightning bolts or "psi-bolts", that can attack on a physical or mental level and are capable of rendering a person unconscious or even killing them. Emma's telepathy is powerful enough to communicate and affect people all the way across the planet. She has even done a mental broadcasting of Cyclops' own thoughts to all of the remaining mutants that were left on the Earth. Emma has also displayed psychometric powers, having taught a class of young mutants how to do so, as well. Using her telepathy, she can also psionically shut off another's mutant's telepathy.Emma has been stated to be an "Omega Class Telepath" (the same classification as Charles Xavier), a level 10 psi and one of the top five telepaths on Earth. Emma's telepathy manifested itself in her teens, and she has devoted her life to mastering her many psychic skills. For a period following the death of Jean Grey and the de-powering of Professor Xavier (though he has since regained his abilities), Emma has acted as the X-Men's primary telepath.After utilizing and losing the Phoenix Force post-Avengers vs X-Men, Emma's powers have been altered with her losing most of her telepathy as result. Another side effect of the Phoenix Force altering her powers, Emma now projects her thoughts unto people at random intervals with no control over this change.Despite the initial loss of her telepathy, for awhile Emma only had a modicum of her previous power levels. Emma is still one of the most skilled telepaths on Marvel Earth. In place of her shattered telepathy, she was relying upon on the powers of other telepaths to which she uses her own mind as a conduit for, such as the Stepford Cuckoos' or the young Jean Grey's telepathic powers. This enables her to engage in telepathic battles and make full use of her skill since the younger mutants do not possess the knowledge she does. Emma recently revealed that her broken telepathic powers have been repaired and back at her normal levels due to training with the Stepford Cuckoos.Her power levels have increased to the point where she was able to create and sustain a projection of Cyclops for an extended period of time. She was able to project her thoughts to the entire world, with the aid of the Cuckoos. This projection of Cyclops was even caught on camera, suggesting that Emma's illusions are not just in the mind of her targets.
Organic Diamond Form
Emma gained a secondary mutation during the destruction of Genosha, which manifested as complete transmutation of her organic tissues into a diamond-like substance. It was later revealed in a flashback that Cassandra Nova possibly catalyzed Emma's secondary mutation in order to allow her to survive the harsh environment of Genosha (however, it is still questionable if this is really true). This ability allows Emma to turn into an un-living yet sentient and mobile diamond form, granting her extreme resistance to damage, invulnerability to cold and heat, enhanced speed, super strength (no limit has been clearly defined but handbooks say approximately 2 tons), immortality, and limitless stamina as her body does not tire or produce any fatigue toxins while in this form. She also does not feel pain or emotions and has no need to eat, sleep, or drink while in diamond form. A drawback of her diamond form is she can not access her telepathy, but in return, it grants her telepathic immunity to all but a few telepaths. Emma can stay transformed for as long as she likes, and the speed it takes for her to transform in and out of her diamond form is almost instantaneous, being described as happening within a hundredth of a second.Emma's diamond form has stood up to Cyclops' optic blasts, jet crashes, blasts from Bishop, hits from World War Hulk, the collapse of Genosha, a blast from Black Bolt, and even a blast from the Dreaming Celestial's head when it was taken over by Mr. Sinister. Emma can be broken if hit with the appropriate amount of force, appropriate weapon and her shatter point (believed to be somewhere on her forehead). Her first instance of entirely shattering was due to a diamond bullet hitting her in her shatter point at extremely high speeds. In her second instance of breaking (this did not involve her shatter point), Emma's arm was cut off when attacked by one of the Dreaming Celestial's "mini celestial" probes its body broke into. Despite her arm breaking off, this shows an impressive upper limit to the kind of damage her diamond form can take, considering one of them was able to blast a massive hole in Colossus' chest and send him flying across San Francisco.
Former Powers

Phoenix Force
While in possession of part of the Phoenix Force, Emma acquires new powers on top of her old ones. She gains the ability to manipulate the Phoenix' cosmic energy for various purposes such as setting enemies on fire or simply projecting it as energy blasts. She also gains telekinetic capabilities and the ability to fly. Her telepathy has grown in strength as she was capable of reaching into every mind on Earth. She gains a massive strength boost easily putting her in class 100+ as she was able to fight and defeat a Mjolnir wielding Thor without much difficulty using nothing but physical combat. In her diamond form, she becomes almost completely invulnerable as X-23's adamantium claws could not cut her.Perhaps Emma's most unique ability gained from the Phoenix is when Thor "shattered" her, (it is possible Emma feigned Thor actually shattering her considering she was playing with him the entire fight) she had conscious control over all the fragments and rained them down through him and then reformed herself, showing Emma in her diamond form combined with the Phoenix Force is possibly unkillable. Despite her new found powers, Emma is not without weakness. Special Shi'ar weaponry, the Iron Fist energy from K'un-Lun and the Scarlet Witch's chaos magic have all been shown to harm them. However, as the Avatars gained more power when one falls, the Scarlet Witch's magic has grown to be less and less effective. As she gained more and more power, the Phoenix's corrupting influence over Emma grew stronger and stronger.
Abilities

Gifted Intellect
Emma is extremely intelligent and cunning, allowing her to traverse the ranks of business, the Hellfire Club, and the X-Men, as well as acquire a great deal of wealth. Her persuasive manner and abilities can easily sway others to do anything in her favor, especially when this skill is backed up with her telepathy.Emma has also spent a great deal of time mentoring young mutants, granting her tremendous knowledge in mutant powers and how they work. When she possessed Iceman's body, she was able to use his powers in ways he had never been capable of before. Emma was the one that discovered Cyclops' inability to control his optic blasts was actually the result of mental blocks that Scott imposed on himself at a young age (and not physical brain damage, as was previously believed) and performed 'psychic surgery' that allowed him to control his powers for a time.
Expert Technician
Emma Frost is highly skilled in electronic theory and electronics and has learned how to build devices that can amplify psionic energy and utilize psionic energy for various effects. She devised the mechanism by which Mastermind projected his illusions directly into the mind of the Phoenix Force.
Defense Training
Emma is a capable fighter in her own right. While in her diamond form, she was able to hold her own quite well against Bishop and Sage until Bishop was forced to blast her away from the battlefield. She defeated half a dozen Sinister men with no powers for training right after her arm was just reconnected. Emma has fended off humans turned into lizard-like creatures without the need of her powers and also managed to fight well against a lizard-turned Wolverine, Gambit, and Storm in diamond form before Spider-Man showed up to help her. When she was a teacher for Generation X, Banshee planned to surprise Emma with an attack, but she quickly and easily thwarted him without the use of her powers, displaying her skill at unarmed combat even before she received official X-Men training in the area.