Hellfire Club
Emma Frost became the White Queen after meeting Sebastian Shaw, who became her patron and her lover. He recognized her power as an extremely high-level telepath and thought it best to recruit her.Emma first encounters the X-men while she is the 'White Queen' of the dangerous Hellfire Club. She tries to forcibly recruit Kitty Pryde to the club but was opposed by the X-Men. Though Emma is initially triumphant, the X-Men eventually defeats her. She and her mutant students, the Hellions would encounter the X-Men many times after this.Emma also plotted with Sebastian Shaw to kill Selene during her time as White Queen, as Sebastian Shaw saw Selene as a threat to his power. Emma was in charge of training a young mutant with great power named Firestar, who was meant to kill Selene, but Firestar inevitably found out about Emma and Shaw's true intentions and turned on them.At some point, Emma decided that she wanted more students, and approached Erik Magnus aka Magneto to get him to transfer his students to her academy. The White Queen snuck into Magneto's office and surprised him while he was pouring himself a drink. Magneto questions her, asking her why she had come to see him, and she tells him that her intentions are not hostile, as if they were he would be dead. Magneto tells her that he will never transfer his students, so Emma used her telepathy to influence Magneto and force him to do so.Her time with the Hellfire Club ends when she is attacked by a mad time traveler named Trevor Fitzroy. In the ensuing incident which also involved the X-Men, most of the Hellions are killed, and Emma in sent into a coma. She is eventually revived, although her mind is transferred to Bobby Drake's body. Initially, Emma thought Xavier is holding her hostage, so she flees to Frost International - still in Iceman's body. Accessing one of her computers, Emma discovers her Hellions were dead and blames herself for it.When Xavier and some other X-Men finally catch up with her, Frost confesses to Charles that the only reason she fights him over young mutants was that she believes that she could offer them something Xavier can't and that their deaths prove that she was wrong. Emma then agrees to go back to the X-Mansion and have her mind transferred back to her body.
Generation X
While Emma Frost resides in the X-Mansion after her body transfer, she and the rest of the X-Men encounter the evil Phalanx, humans possessed by the transmode virus. The Phalanx ultimate goal was to use the young new mutants that were born in their evil scheme. Emma and fellow X-Man Banshee take it upon themselves to find these new mutants before they are captured by the Phalanx. Thus creating an all-new team of mutants, which would later become known as Generation X. Emma tries to fight off the Phalanx, but was not strong enough so she combines the powers of Synch and Jubilee. Later, During Generation X's training, Emma's sister Adrienne tries to create chaos at the institute. She plants bombs which are not defused in time, and in a rage, Emma shoots and kills her sister. After a while, Emma has visions and is haunted by the past of her sister, but she is able to defeat her once again and expel her from her mind. From that point on she vows not to rely on her telepathic abilities. In her opinion, it had caused her to lose her edge resulting in Synch's death, and she vows to be hard "as hard as diamonds."
Joining the X-Men
After this, she goes on to teach at the mutant-dominated island nation of Genosha. During the infamous Sentinel Genocide of the island's inhabitants, Emma manages to survive by virtue of her secondary mutation manifesting, allowing her to take on a near-invulnerable diamond form. She finds herself as one of the instructors at Xavier's, where she develops a close relationship with X-Men founding member Cyclops. This would evolve into a secretive telepathic affair between the two, helped along by an incident where Cyclops temporarily becomes possessed by Apocalypse. Jean's discovery of this would distance her own relationship with Cyclops, while Emma would only grow closer to the mutant leader.
New X-Men
Emma had been teaching on the mutant island kingdom of Genosha when Cassandra Nova launched a massive sentinel attack. The attack wiped out the population of the island. Jean Grey and Hank McCoy traveled to Genosha to help with relief efforts and discovered only one survivor - Emma Frost. She'd been saved by the manifestation of her secondary mutation, a flexible, organic diamond form. In her arms, she held the corpse of her former student, Negasonic Teenage Warhead, unwilling to accept that she'd died. Emma was taken back to the Xavier Institute so that Beast could run a few tests on her new mutation. He concluded that she'd been gifted with diamond skin. Unfortunately, when in diamond form, Emma discovered that she could no longer access her telepathy. In this form, she could not experience genuine emotion or pain. After telepathically summoning a taxi, Emma planned to leave the Institute, but she said she had an "epiphany", and decided to stop the car and head back to the school. She entered as the other X-Men were battling Cassandra Nova. In her diamond form, Emma twisted Nova's neck, killing her, saying that "There are just some things that shouldn't be forgiven." However, Nova had a type of healing factor that kicked in and brought her back. Unbeknownst to the X-Men, Nova had switched places with Xavier by means of a consciousness transfer. Nova now occupied the body of Xavier. As Xavier, she shot her own true body to cripple the real Charles. Cyclops thanks Emma for coming back. Emma plays this off, saying that she'd forgotten her bag, and it was lucky for Scott that it was a Louis Vitton. After this event, Emma decides to join the X-Men.
Xorn
On a trip to China, the group came upon a captive mutant called Xorn. In an effort to free him, the X-Men battled Chinese militants and John Sublime's U-Men. Eventually, Xorn was free of captivity. Disgusted with the life he knew, he was attempting to overload his powers, which would destroy life on Earth. Emma used her telepathy to psychically "download" the Chinese language into Cyclops's mind. Scott was able to talk Xorn down, and even offered him a place on the X-Men.Soon later, Xavier (which was still really Cassandra Nova) outed himself as a mutant on a live talk show. Many reacted to this in a negative way, and soon a large crowd formed outside the school, comprised of protesters, mutant-haters, and the media. Xavier (Nova) decided to visit Charles's lady love, the Empress Lilandra Neramani of the Shi'ar Empire. He left the planet, leaving the team to deal with the new students, the protesters, and Sublime. Jean tried addressing the crowd, but her efforts bore no fruit. Emma, tired of waiting around for Jean's method to work, telepathically brought every member of the crowd to orgasm, simultaneously. They each passed out, and when they woke up, they left in their shame.
Visiting Sublime
Emma and Scott decided to pay a visit to John Sublime, who'd been preaching to the world that everyone could be a mutant. Despite his seemingly wannabe-attitude, Emma believed he was involved in a plot far more sinister. When questioned by the pair, Sublime had his U-Men attack Emma and Scott. One of them broke Emma's nose. She shifted into diamond form, unable to telepathically shut them down because she was being blocked by the captive Martha Johansson who would go on to become No-Girl. Emma and Scott were detained. The U-Men were given orders to sever Scott's head from his body. They were to later turn their attention to Emma to take her apart and make some sort of human chandelier out of her. While they were occupied with Scott, Emma broke free of her restraints and angrily took down her opponents, freeing Scott in the process. They located Sublime once again in his office. Emma telepathically stimulated the man's pain receptors so that he could feel what she felt when her nose was broken but amplified to an unbearable degree. Emma then attacked him, slamming him into the large windows, breaking the glass when she did so. She held him several stories above the ground, threatening to drop him. Scott urged her not to, reminding her that X-Men don't kill. Sublime let go of Emma, falling to his death. Emma told Scott not to blame her as "he practically somersaulted" from her grip.Cassandra Nova had been using her influence in the Shi'ar Empire to return to Earth with a host of Shi'ar destroyers. It was revealed that she had unleashed thousands of nano sentinels into the air at the Xavier Institute, infecting the X-Men. She then lied to the Superguardians, telling them that this mutant plague was contagious and needed to be wiped out before it harmed everyone else in the galaxy. The Shi'ar Imperial Guard attacked the Institute. Emma was taken out first so that her formidable telepathic powers would not interfere with their invasion. A device was placed on her head that prevented her from using her powers. As the Superguardians battled their way into the school, Emma was stuck, powerless on the campus. Fortunately for her, the Stepford Cuckoos were able to psychically learn how to unlock the device. They helped Emma out of her constraints, and she headed back to the mansion, where an understanding between the X-Men and the Imperial Guard had been reached. Unfortunately, Cassandra Nova did not halt her attack, still using Xavier's body. All hope seemed lost until Emma returned and tricked Nova into making a deal with her. Emma would provide Nova with a host body if Nova let her live. Nova agreed and entered the body of the alien, Stuff, who was a gelatinous blob programmed for learning basic things, meaning Nova would be trapped in the body of an unintelligent, incompetent alien blob.
Riot at Xavier's
Later on, Quentin Quire aka Kid Omega, the prized pupil of Charles Xavier, and his gang of cronies known as the Omega Gang attacked and inhibited the powers of Professor X. Unable to use his telepathy, the man tried to talk some sense into the students, who'd hooked him up on the wall. They were determined to ruin the school's Open Day the next morning by staging a riot. When crowds of humans arrived to see the wonderful displays the students had created for the school, Quentin made statements about the lies of Xavier and the superiority of mutantkind. Glob Herman was lit on fire, and he began to hurl balls of flame at the crowds. Emma assumed her diamond form and helped get the humans packed onto buses and away from the dangerous Omega Gang. Quentin had already managed to subdue Wolverine and Professor X. Glob Herman, still aflame, chased the bus of humans, drawing the attention of Beast. Cyclops engaged the Omega Gang, easily taking down several members. A member known as Tattoo phased her hand through Scott's head, threatening to solidify, thereby killing him. Emma slid her diamond hand through Tattoo's own head, saying that if Tattoo solidified, she would die as well. She was able to eliminate Tattoo as a threat. Meanwhile, the Stepford Cuckoos used the powers of their hive mind while Sophie Cuckoo used the drug known as Kick and Cerebra to enhance their powers. Together they were able to subdue Quentin but at a price. Emma had gone to check on Sophie. She carried the girl's dead body to the outside of the school. The psychic strain had killed Sophie Cuckoo.
Psychic Affair Outed
As Jean Grey was returning on a flight back to Westchester from her European missions with new mutant Sooraya Qadir, aka Dust, the Stepford Cuckoos contacted her, informing her that her husband, Scott, had been having a psychic affair with Emma Frost. The Cuckoos were mad that under Emma's tutelage, Sophie had decided to play the hero and died for it. This was their way of getting revenge. Scott and Emma were in the middle of their psychic tryst when Jean Grey returned, and burst into Emma's thoughts, catching them in the act. Scott tries to explain, but Jean shuts him out and gets personal with Emma. She forces her way into Emma's mind, and they argue, while Jean explores the depths of Emma's psyche, looking for memories Emma has been keeping well hidden. After invading Emma's mind and stomping around in it, Jean leaves, and Emma falls into Wolverine's arms, admitting finally and lamenting that she has fallen in love with Scott Summers. Beast goes to check on her later on, only to discover, to his shock and dismay, that Emma has been shot and shattered into thousands of little diamond shards. Veteran X-Men Lucas Bishop and Sage arrive on the scene to investigate Emma Frost's murder. They lock down the school and begin questioning everyone. It is later revealed that Angel Salvadore had confronted Emma Frost and shot her in her nose (the flawed weak point of her diamond form), thereby shattering her. Just before this diamond bullet was fired, Emma realized that Esme Cuckoo had been controlling Angel and had forced her to shoot Emma. Hank McCoy busied himself with reassembling Emma's diamond form in his lab as if it were a giant puzzle. When he was nearing completion, Jean decided to step in and used her Phoenix powers to piece Emma back together and fuse all the shards. Emma was alive again, and the first thing she did was shout out the name of Esme. Bishop and Sage confronted Esme as she was attempting to escape the school. She easily defeated them telepathically and then left the premises in a cab. It was revealed that Esme had been dealing the drug Kick at the school, and had gotten rid of Emma because she had been investigating it. Sooner or later, she would have discovered that Esme was behind it all. Esme had been using Kick to enhance her telepathy so that she could take total control of the hive mind she shared with the other Stepford Cuckoos. Sophie attempted to fight back, and because of that, Esme influenced Sophie's brash heroism during the riot at the school, thereby steering Sophie to her death. It was not Emma's fault, after all.
Co-leader of the X-Men
After Jean's death at the hands of Xorn, Emma makes her romantic relationship with Cyclops public, despite the disapproval of others. After this, she becomes co-headmaster of the newly rebuilt Xavier Institute. Emma soon begins playing a pivotal role in the lives of the students. Emma becomes the head of a team of students that she called the Hellions, after her former fallen pupils. Emma also joins the new premier X-Men team, consisting of Cyclops, Wolverine, Kitty Pryde, and Beast. When the Danger Room becomes sentient, Emma battles it with the other members of her team. Emma is the last one standing and is unable to defeat her. Later while battling Danger on Genosha, Emma reconnects with the Hellfire Club.
House of M & M Day
After the reality warp caused by the Scarlet Witch, Emma Frost was married to Scott Summers and the couple had three children. Emma was the first person Wolverine contacted when he discovered that reality had been altered by Wanda. Once "reawakened", Emma was able to use her telepathy to restore the memories of others, thereby "reawakening" them as well. After a significant number of heroes, both X-Men and Avengers, had their memories restored, a meeting was held to discuss what should be done regarding the Scarlet Witch. Speaking to this issue, Emma said, "What is there to say? Put her down". Emma was the only one who agreed with Logan - the Scarlet Witch needed to be killed. A large group of X-Men and Avengers traveled to Genosha to deal with the Scarlet Witch. Wanda was driven to the edge, and in this final moment of madness, she uttered the words "No more mutants" deactivating the x-gene of mutants all over the world, thereby significantly decreasing the mutant population from hundreds of thousands to mere hundreds. Emma had been monitoring the battle via Cerebro, and upon the utterance of those words, Emma witnessed thousands of lights representing mutants suddenly go out. She was among the few mutants who still retained their powers after M Day.
Messiah Complex
Emma was with the team when they visited Cooperstown, Alaska to find the newborn Hope Summers. They searched for survivors as they looked upon the carnage that the Marauders and the Purifiers had left in their wake. Emma used her telepathy to scan for survivors. The baby Hope was missing, and the X-Men believed Mr. Sinister's Marauders had taken her. In an effort to find her, a team of five - Wolverine, Storm, Nightcrawler, Colossus, & Angel - was dispatched to confront the Marauders. Sinister, believing that taking down the team would be simple, was surprised to find that there was a sixth X-Man with them: though her body was back at the mansion, Emma was psychically present, shielding the minds of the X-Men against Sinister's telepathy. When the Sentinels that stood guard over the school were hijacked by Bishop (unbeknownst to the team), Emma's concentration was broken, and the team became susceptible to Sinister's attacks. Emma was also with the team later on when they battled the Marauders and took down Harpoon. During the battle on Muir Island, Emma psychically engaged Exodus, and the two battled telepathically. Though Exodus was capable of other feats (telekinesis, etc.), Emma was able to keep him so completely focused on their psi-battle that he was unable to use his other abilities on her. While Emma kept him distracted, Dust entered his body one grain of sand at a time, and scoured his lungs, incapacitating the mutant, while the rest of the X-Men finished off the remaining Marauders.
Secret Invasion
When the full forces of the Skrull Empire invaded Earth, a portion of those troops traveled to San Francisco, believing the population there to be devoid of any superhuman presence. But they were wrong. At the time, San Francisco was still the home of the X-Men, and among them was Emma Frost.
Utopia and Dark Reign
Emma is called upon by Norman Osborn, after he is appointed as America's "Top Cop", to join a group named the Cabal to help Osborn consolidate power. Following a series of anti-mutant protests and riots in San Francisco, Emma is tasked by Norman Osborn to lead a civil peacekeeping group of X-Men. She is given command over Wolverine's son Daken, Weapon Omega, Mimic, and the duo of Cloak and Dagger. Emma brought a final element to the team: Namor, with whom she had previously shared a romantic relationship. Emma's first fight with the team occurred when she arrests a group of mutant vandals led by her own former student, Hellion. Emma insists on touring a mutant prison to see how the prisoners are being treated. She is then contacted, weakly, by Professor Xavier, and he informs her that he and Hank are being kept prisoner there. He also tells her that the Omega Chair, developed by the Dark Beast has horrible side effects and that Osborn isn't telling her everything. Emma then verbally reassures the Professor that she believes him and that she would make sure everything would be all right.
Nation X
In Nation X, Osborn retreated, leaving the mutants to build their Utopia, Emma continues to support Cyclops, though she was seemingly trapped in her diamond form until the Void essence could be safely removed. To help her, Xavier telepathically links Emma and Cyclops' minds. Cyclops finds himself in a vast white room inside Emma's mind. Many representations of Emma are present, and Emma's main consciousness approached him. Just as they began to discuss how to extract the Void, all the other Emma personalities attacks Cyclops, while the main Emma is pulled into the empty whiteness.She flies away from it towards Cyclops' thoughts until she is able to reach him through a hole he had blasted through the whiteness. Once rescued Emma sees something over Cyclops' shoulder, and is abruptly ejected from her mind and into the real world, no longer in her diamond form.
Necrosha
In Necrosha, Selene recently resurrected Emma's Hellions are sent to attack her. They catch her unaware and taunt her. Confronted by her past failures, Emma crumbled and was unable to fight back. She is protected by Cyclops and Domino long enough for the Vanisher to appear and teleport Emma to safety. At the end of the battle, Emma recognizes the only way to end this is to kill Selene and anyone on her side, even Wither, a former and favorite student of Emma's. Other recently resurrected mutants are sent to attack the X-Men to prevent them from interfering with Selene's plans to sacrifice the souls of the resurrected mutants on Genosha. However, the Hellions are sent to kill Emma as a punishment for thwarting Selene's plans during their time in the Hellfire Club together.
Second Coming
During Second Coming Emma mostly stays on Utopia and used her telepathy to keep Scott and the field teams connected. She later leaves this post to fight with the other X-Men on the Golden Gate Bridge. She acted very nervously when Hope manifested the Phoenix Force, but she was told by Wolverine that there is nothing she can do now. She acts cold and unconcerned towards Scott when he seeks her out for moral support due to being in this form. She then sees the Phoenix Force manifest around Hope and remembers Jean Grey's words to her when she saw her during the Sisterhood attack: "Prepare".
Fear Itself
Emma and the other X-Men are forced to protect the city of San Francisco from Kuurth, Unstoppable Juggernaut. After creating a psychic conference room for the mayor, Cyclops, and herself; Emma waits on Cerebro to attack the Juggernaut mentally when the team can get his helmet off. Once his helmet is off, Emma tries to attack telepathically but suffers extreme psychic distress. She is sent to the recovery center on Utopia alongside Hope Summers, who, in a moment of confusion, she tries to suffocate. She is stopped by Namor who she mistakes for Cyclops and kisses him by accident, only to snap back to her senses and shoo him away telling him to never tell Scott about this. Namor continues to tell Emma that Scott is undeserving of her love and that he would make a far more suitable partner.
Curse of the Mutants
Emma was present when Xarus's united vampire nation attacked various parts of San Francisco. Jubilee was targeted by a vampire suicide bomber and was thusly transformed into a vampire, herself. The plan was to lure Logan aka Wolverine out to track her down and save her. According to Scott's plan, Logan's healing factor was temporarily negated and he turned into a vampire as well. Emma suggested finding the deceased Dracula, and reanimating him so that he might take down Xarus for them. Namor retrieved Dracula's head and Storm and Gambit were dispatched to find the body. Once put back together, Dracula threatened to simply attack Utopia himself. Eventually, Xarus led a full-scale attack on Utopia, which was defended by the "Tough Skin" squad, led by Cyclops, Emma, and Blade, the vampire hunter. Assuming her diamond form, Emma was able to effectively battle the vampire hordes because they could not bite her or do any damage. The sheer numbers of Xarus's legion soon overwhelmed the X-Men, and as they prepared to fall back, the vampire Wolverine was sent to kill Scott. It was then that Scott's plan played out, as Logan's healing factor was restored, and he returned to normalcy. Dracula's arrival saw Emma's plan play out, as father killed son, and the X-Men were able to send the vampires back to where they came from, relatively unscathed.
Schism
When Scott Summers and Wolverine visited the United Nations to speak at an International Arms Control Conference, they were surprised to find another mutant in attendance: Quentin Quire, aka Kid Omega. Quentin used his vast psychic powers to force the world leaders in the room to reveal their deepest darkest secrets on live television. This incident sparked worldwide outrage and widespread panic. Mutant hysteria was at an all-time high as world leaders took old models of Sentinels that had been commissioned long ago out of storage. The Sentinels in nearly every country had been reactivated and were on the lookout for mutants. Emma Frost broadcast a telepathic message to every remaining mutant on the planet, warning them about the sentinels, and urging them to lay low. Emma also ran telepathic surveillance with the Stepford Cuckoos as teams were deployed into the field to destroy the sentinels. The old models began to malfunction and began attacking everyone around them - not just humans. Soon thereafter, Quentin Quire turned up on Utopia seeking sanctuary. Wolverine decided against it, but Cyclops allowed him to stay. He was sent to a room, but not without a stern warning from Emma. While most X-Men were out dealing with the Sentinel problem, Emma decided to visit the Museum of Mutant History located elsewhere in San Francisco on the night of its grand opening. The mutant-friendly Mayor Sinclair had invited Cyclops to the event. Cyclops decided to send the Sub-Mariner, Colossus, Iceman, and Magneto with Emma as a show of force to the outside world. While at the museum, Emma notes that she is mentioned barely four times, and in three of them, as a villain. Later, after taking photos, Emma and the X-Men are attacked by Kade Kilgore, his Inner Circle, and their henchmen. Emma's telepathy is blocked by a device activated by Maximilian Frankenstein of Kilgore's Inner Circle. He reveals there is a tiny button hidden away in his glove by his pinkie finger that allowed him to block her powers. Emma simply breaks his finger, reactivating her telepathic powers. Before she has the ability to shut down the invaders, a space slug is attached to her face, incapacitating Emma and the others. With the 'heavy hitters' down, Idie Okonkwo aka Oya, decides, based on Cyclops's orders, to attack the intruders. She burns them alive, all except for Kilgore and his Inner Circle, who escape. This attack sets Wolverine off against Cyclops, saying that it wasn't right for Oya to do what she did. Wolverine blamed Scott, and Scott accepted the blame. By the time the slug was removed from Emma's face, Cyclops and Wolverine had taken down a mega-sentinel that attacked Utopia - with the help of the mutant children.This final battle was what made up Logan's mind. He decided to leave Utopia saying that Cyclops was turning children into soldiers. Scott and Logan invited the rest of the mutants to make up their mind, and choose a side, and reassured them that there would be no hard feelings. Cyclops naturally assumed that Emma would stay on Utopia with him. Emma told him he shouldn't have assumed as much. She revealed that he has forced her to sacrifice everything she believes in, everything she loves to be with him on Utopia. She believed in teaching the next generation, not in fighting. After explaining why she should leave, Emma reveals that she liquidated her company in order to bankroll Utopia since Angel would be leaving. She did it even before Scott asked if she would be staying, showing that she'd already resolved to remain with him.
Regenesis
Emma stays with Scott on Utopia where she liquidates her company in order to bankroll Utopia for the time being. She is on Scott's Extinction Team along with Hope, Colossus, Magik, Danger, Magneto, Namor and Storm. Emma and the team are alarmed of the Dreaming Celestial being activated by Mr. Sinister. They engage him in battle and Emma ends up losing one of her diamond arms due to a blast from a celestial probe. Emma and the team fought the Sinister people until Mr. Sinister invites them into to his domain. Sinister telepathically controls the team, but due to being in her diamond form Emma is immune but surrounded. Emma told Hope a code word that replicates Emma's diamond form to protect Hope from Sinister prior to entering his domain. With Sinister shot through the head by Hope thanks to Emma, the team is freed from his telepathic control but Sinister predicts this would happen and the team learns Sinister's copies have become a hive-mind-like species.Emma and the team continue to battle the Sinister Species when Emma realizes that Sinister is using Cyclop's mind as a blueprint for his species. Emma has Namor hold her left arm as a tourniquet and abandons her diamond form where she successfully uses her telepathy to mind blast the Sinisters. However, a new Sinister arrives saying he integrated the new data that the previous Sinisters received, and shoots himself after teleporting his palace away.The Dreaming Celestial's head attaches to its body as the rest of the Celestials land. Emma is about to be told to leave by Scott but cuts him short refusing to go. The team stares the Celestials down vowing to protect the Dreaming Celestial and Earth. A group of people gathers looking at the X-men but they do nothing, no throwing things, no derogatory slurs. They only show fear which was Cyclops' initial plan all along. Emma's diamond arm was eventually reattached by a molecular weaving machine made by X-Club.Emma was seen training, getting back into to fighting condition after her arm reattachment. She had a brief conversation with Namor and left while noticing Scott was on edge about something. She was later deployed with the Extinction team to deal with the escaped prisoners from the Peak space prison station and when the Avengers showed up to deal with further escapees. She teams up with Iron Man, Colossus and Red Hulk to face Xemnu the Titan While Colossus holds off Xemnu, Emma and Tony make a psionic shielding device for the Red Hulk to protect him from Xemnu's telepathy. With the device complete, the combined might of Colossus and Red Hulk was enough to defeat the alien.With Hope taken captive by Unit, the Extinction team takes leave from the Avengers to save Hope. Emma and the team are teleported there by Magik where Emma tries to invade Unit's mind. Unit uses a fake double mind, which is what he used in the first place to make a false mutant detection signal in order to draw out Hope, allowing him the chance to shoot a small laser at Emma stunning her. He then uses a pheromone barrage on her and Namor forcing them to become intimate on the battlefield which makes Scott angry and jealous causing him to blast Unit. With Unit's eventual defeat at the hands of Danger, the team returns home where Emma apologizes to Scott for what happened with her and Namor. He tells her that he was alright with what happened since she was forced to do so and had no choice in the matter.
Avengers vs. X-Men
Emma sides with the X-Men where she tried to take Hope deeper into Utopia away from the Avengers and the battle. She was close to telepathically shutting down the Avenger's mental defenses when Iron Man shows up using a nanotech taser cloud to block her telepathy. Emma is forced into her diamond form and after a brief battle with Iron Man is defeated shortly after until Magneto shows up to battle Iron Man, saving her. After the Avengers have soundly won the Battle of Utopia and Hope has run off, Cyclops surrenders the X-Men. The Avengers become aware that this is just a ruse, as Cyclops has Magik teleport the X-Men away. Emma is with Scott when he visits the Jean Grey School to ask for recruits and sanctuary. A brief battle with Wolverine's X-Men ensues, and the Extinction Team leaves the premises. They find out Hope is heading to the moon. Emma, and four other mutants, Cyclops, Magik, Colossus, and Namor, acquire a share of the Phoenix thanks to Iron Man using a new armor to stop it from bonding with Hope. Emma and the rest of the Phoenix Five take Hope back to Earth in order to prepare for future events. They announce they will cleanse the Earth.Emma and the rest of the Phoenix Five fix the Earth by ending hunger, providing an unlimited source of free, clean energy and water, and also outlaw war 'Pax Utopia'. In order to outlaw war, they destroy all large weapons including sentinels, missiles, submarines, tanks, etc. Emma destroyed sentinels from all around the world. In order to complete this job, she arrived at Avengers Academy to destroy the sentinel belonging to Juston. Despite its being a killing machine, Justin has grown attached to the sentinel and refuses to let Emma destroy it. The students of the Academy step in to prevent Emma from taking the sentinel apart. Hank Pym joins the fray, and together they make a stand against Emma, who easily tosses them around with her new powers. She cannot understand why the students would want to protect a mutant-hunting robot. She is most surprised by X-23 who attacks Emma to defend her friend. Laura is a mutant and Emma believed that she would side with her. Emma was able to thwart Laura's attack by shifting into diamond form. Emma offered to simply wipe the processing unit of the sentinel so that its prime directive to "Destroy all mutants!" would be erased. Juston wouldn't allow this claiming that it would do away with the sentinel's personality. Having been unable to reach a compromise, Emma decided to simply destroy the machine. Rather than melting it, however, she took it apart, so that Justin could rebuild it with a new unit. She melted its core so that it could not be used again. After extending an invitation to X-23 (that was hastily rejected), Emma took her leave of the school. Unbeknownst to her, Quicksilver had switched out the sentinel's unit with his super speed so that the sentinel would be safe after all. Emma's battle at Avengers Academy led to Hank Pym's announcement that the school would be closed because it was unsafe.Later, Emma and Namor talk about Transonic being imprisoned. Namor is disgusted with it and Emma tells him she knows where the girl is. In what appears to be a manipulative moment for Emma, most likely due to the corruption and the power of the part of the Phoenix Force in her, kisses Namor and tells him Transonic is in Wakanda and that she, Emma, hasn't told Scott about her whereabouts.Another scuffle with the Avengers occurs when the Avengers invade a remodeled Utopia (which now ascends all the way into the sky with all new levels of paradise) to snatch away Hope Summers. Emma and Scott prepare to battle the Avengers and permanently end the conflict, but the Scarlet Witch intervenes and teleports a voluntary Hope and the Avengers away. Emma talks with Cyclops who goes on to say that despite all the good X-Men do and all the good they have done, mankind still hates and fears them. That they will always be pushed further into a corner and steal away their innocent despite being endangered so few. The humans will always send their "heroes" to attack the mutants and continue to push them around. She watches as Cyclops simply states "No more Avengers." He plans to take the Avengers off the board, permanently.With Magneto bringing Namor's actions to Scott's attention, he questions Emma. Emma tells him Namor is his own man and that Scott has no authority over him. Emma tells him to look at the benefit of what happened with the Avengers being found. Emma and the rest of the Phoenix Five go to Wakanda wherein Namor's defeat, they absorb his share of the Phoenix Force. Emma calls for a meeting with Scott in the remote location of the Danakil Desert in Ethiopia. Emma and he talk and she go on to say she has reached into every mind on Earth. Scott tells her that she needs to stop sounding like Namor and that this isn't a war and she needs to come home. Emma tells Scott that Hope is in K'un Lun. Scott rushes off to retrieve Hope leaving Emma in mid-sentence begging for him to stop her as she is scared of what she might do next as the Phoenix Force's influence corrupts her further. She ends up making a man who had a hit and runs accident with a thirteen-year-old mutant boy years ago and never reported it just because he was a mutant, brain dead. When Colossus and Magik fight, they manage to knock each other out in an attempt to gain the other's portion of the Phoenix Force. They are returned to their normal forms as their portions of the Phoenix Force leave them and presumably go to Emma and Scott.Emma is now almost completely corrupted by the Phoenix Force. She has forced all the remaining X-Men to bow down and worship her. Only one resisted and that was Magneto. Emma explains that she is indeed the more powerful of the two which spites Magneto to contact Xavier saying both Emma and Scott are completely gone. Scott is in need of more power after his defeat at the hands of Hope taking the power of Iron Fist and Scarlet witch so he is heading after Emma.Emma talks with Scott telling him she can read his thoughts about how he thinks he might take her half. Emma begins to go on on a rant threatening to burn the world but Cyclops yells at her to stop talking like that and asks what has gotten into her. She replies with a worried look that she doesn't know. The Avengers and X-Men attack the two remaining avatars and they fight back. As the fight continues on the outside, Emma and Cyclops have a psychic dinner discussing things. Emma reveals to Scott even more disturbing tendencies such as using human blood as a sauce for a steak. She tells him about the psychic affair and that she truly loves him. She continues to talk about destroying the world and that she will be a queen of ash and they will just rebuild anew. Emma's corruption is almost complete and Cyclops realizes this. He asks for her forgiveness as Emma is stricken down by him and her half of the force is absorbed. Emma is arrested by the Avengers who are then attacked by Purifier being labeled as mutant sympathizers. The Avengers defeat them and then Emma is escorted to prison and the Extinction team is revealed to still be active.
Consequences
Kitty sees Emma in prison, asking her if she wants Emma to take a message to Scott. Emma retorts to Kitty that she doesn't want to foul up her mouth in her usual, mean tone towards the Kitty. They talk for a bit with Kitty saying they have a lot in common with Emma saying that both of their men turned out to be idiots. Kitty states that the difference is that she was smart enough to leave hers. She exits while Emma looks on with a scowl on her face.
All New X-Men
Emma was freed from a high-security prisoner transport unit by Cyclops and Magneto, whose powers just went haywire. Emma is furious at Scott for all his actions and betrayal and Cyclops tells her it wasn't him and it was the Phoenix. Emma storms off and Cyclops tells her to read his mind to show her how sorry he really is but Emma reveals she cannot as the Phoenix altered their powers and her telepathy is gone. Emma also tells Scott they best not be near each other and when she was seemingly going to end the relationship right then and there, the cops start heading towards them as Magik teleports the group away. In Australia, a new mutant girl named Eva has just awakened her powers after her overprotective brother started a fight. The girl formed a time sphere around a block in Australia with the Police and Federal Guard outside the sphere. Emma tells the mutant girl that these are the scariest times in mutant lives. The team offers to help her learn to control her powers if she will join them. When the temporal sphere goes down, Emma shifts into her diamond form, and along with Magneto and Cyclops, she helps protect Eva and fight off the police forces.With Cyclops and Magneto discussing the issues at hand in a field, Emma tells them both a new mutant has been revealed. When Magik teleports Cyclops and Magneto back to the Weapon X facility, Cyclops storms and Emma asks what happened where Magneto tells her that the Original Five X-Men have been brought to the present. Magneto mentions young Cyclops and Jean Grey which is all Emma needed to hear as she goes to find Cyclops. She finds him on a hill where she starts to ask him what happened. While reluctant, Cyclops tells her that they were all real. Emma ponders who would have the technology and wherewithal to something like this. With Cyclops pointing out Beast would be the only one, Emma figures it makes sense since Cyclops killed Xavier that with Hank not being able to kill Scott would punish him instead. She shows up with Scott and the group to the Jean Grey Institute to deliver his explanation of what happened in Avengers vs X-Men to clear the air and offer the new students to join his side of things at the new Xavier Institute.Emma recently took Jean Grey to Madripoor after promising to train her in her psionic powers. Emma reveals her psychic powers have been repaired with some help from the Cuckoos, and with it she shuts off Jean's telepathy. She sends Jean after the Blob, and Jean managed to defeat him. Emma congratulates her and tells her she needs to open herself up more and the two head home.
The New Revolution
With the emergence of a new mutant by the name of Fabio Medina, Cyclops and his X-Men team show up to ascertain him to join the New Charles Xavier Institute for the Gifted. Fabio is being detained by the police at the time of his powers awakening and causing a commotion. The X-Men manage to stop the police but are soon attacked by a group of sentinels. The veteran X-Men manage to defeat the sentinels, even with their altered powers with Cyclops delivering the final blow, leveling the entire area as the group stare in amazement at his power. After the defeated sentinels, the revolutionary group of X-Men leave with Fabio and return the new Xavier Institute. Emma has a break down outside and discovers that she is now projecting her thoughts at random. She has a deep conversation with Scott about their current situation. While they agree they are separated, they show they still care about each other and will continue to work with each other for the betterment of the students. They head inside the new school and go over the current mutant situation. The team teleports to Australia to visit Eva Bell's mother, and not long after showing up, the X-Men and recruits are intercepted by an Avengers squad.Emma and Scott stand up to the Avengers with the bold proclamation that the Avengers are the ones responsible for the death of Charles Xavier. After some statements from Cyclops and the Avengers almost assaulting the X team, Eva Bell freezes them in a temporal bubble. Cyclops makes the statement that the X-Men will protect all the mutants and humans that support them and that a warning to the people who will deny them their freedom has been issued. The X team is transported back to the New Xavier Institute where Magneto is revealed to be the mole. The team shows disgust at the reveal except for Emma, who realizes that Magneto being a double agent is an ingenious plan and even convinces Scott it can play to their advantage. Emma, along with the rest of the veteran mutant team, are transported by Magik to the Jean Grey Institute.When they show up to the Jean Grey Institute, Scott goes off on his explanation of his side in the story and in the meantime, Emma confronts the Stepford Cuckoos where they figure out she does not have her telepathy and realize that is why Emma never made contact. The Cuckoos psychically torture Emma to a degree about it and uncover what happened between her and Scott. Emma doesn't blame them for their actions as she does understand they are just like her. Emma and the Cuckoos then have a psychic conversation about the events happening at the school with the original X-Men coming to the future. The Cuckoos do make mention of Jean Grey and that she is still very untrained, as they have been reading her mind quite frequently. Emma tells the Cuckoos to come with her to the Xavier School where she will continue to train them. Emma and the group leave for a period to return to their school and find the new mutants getting attacked by the Danger Room. It is then that Magik's powers show her broken state as she screams out in pain, briefly disappears, and reappears in a small burst of flames. Emma and the veteran X-Men leave once more for the Jean Grey school and upon their return, the Cuckoos have come to the new Xavier Institute along with the younger version of Angel.After Magik's powers go off again, Cyclops has a talk with her and brings her back. Emma, along with the rest of the team, are forcibly pulled into Limbo where Illyana has transformed into Darkchilde.It is revealed that the team was forcibly transported into Limbo by Dormammu so he could kill the team to spite Magik and eventually kill her. Emma transforms into diamond form to keep herself protected and when Dormammu commands his mindless ones to attack the team, Emma gets the Stepford Cuckoos to turn the fearful new mutant's mindsets into bravery, thus giving them to courage to fight back. Emma and the rest of the team fight the minions to save themselves and Magik.Emma continues battling the mindless ones and the group is soon getting overwhelmed with some getting injured. Magik manages to free herself and cast everyone out while absorbing the entire dimension into herself. One of the students, Benjamin, is nearly dead, but Emma coaches Christopher through the use of his ability and saves him. Scott apologizes to the team and tells them they all must train. Emma and Scott escort Fabio home, as he could not handle the pressure that comes with being an X-man. Emma tells the team not to worry as new mutants are popping up all over the world, and the team rescues and recruits a new mutant by the name of David Bond, who has the ability to control cars. Emma is seen coaching David when he is controlling a massive plane just outside of the compound. When Irma of the Stepford Cuckoos dyes her hair, Emma is seen escorting her back inside when Celeste freaks out on her. Emma helps the team invade the S.H.I.E.L.D. helicarrier when they catch word of Fabio being kidnapped and interrogated and the team manages to successfully save Fabio.Emma and Scott are training the students, but the former couple ends up having a small argument. After watching Eva perform a new ability with her powers, Emma and the rest of the X-Men end up watching a pro-mutant rally in honor of Scott. The X-Men go and join the rally where Emma watches Scott give a speech, but not long after a new sentinel attacks them.The Blockbuster sentinel attacks, and appears to vaporize him. Much to worry about Emma, but due to a timely save from Magik, he is alright. Emma goes diamond and charges the machine, only to be knocked back and caught by Angel. The rest of the X-Men try their luck at attacking it, but the sentinel keeps adapting. Eventually, Magneto arrives and does a final attack. The Sentinel appears to ready to explode, and with Cyclops demanding the robot tell him who sent it, Emma saves Scott before it does leave an explosion, but only due to the assailant calling it back.During a training session, Emma watches as Cyclops is being especially hard on Benjamin for giving up in a training exercise. When Benjamin gets out of the shower, Emma is clad in different clothes and begins to get close to the student in an attempt to make him uncomfortable and push him to get his powers to activate. The attempt works as Emma picks up on his traits and comes to the conclusion that he is more than just a shape-shifter, and that he can mess with technology, and that he releases a pheromone of sorts that makes people feel good about themselves. Emma and Magik take him to Atlanta, Georgia where they put his powers to the test. Emma ends up having the student run an actual mission. She hands him a letter and tells Benjamin to bring it all the way up to Timothy Dugan's office with a note telling him that in someone inside SHIELD is attacking mutants. Benjamin ends up passing and Emma tells Scott about his successful mission.
X-Men vs. S.H.I.E.L.D.
The team responds to a new mutant but it turns out to be a trap. Emma and everyone is attacked by a large sentinel and their powers begin to shut off. Emma manages to help get the students behind Cyclops and Magik saves the day with a spell. Emma and the group head back to the institute and come to the conclusion that whoever is baiting them is using Cerebro and sending out false signals to lure them in. They unplug Cerebro and they come to the conclusion that only a few people know to use Cerebro: Xavier who is dead, Magneto, who wouldn't do this, and Beast. Cyclops and Magik head to the Xavier Institute and leave Emma behind with the students. Emma is later seen with the students knowing that something wrong is happening and that she is worried about Scott. Emma is with the students when Magneto shows up with Dazzler. He has Triage heal her. Emma and the crew are about to leave when Magik arrives and teleports them to the Jean Grey school to see what is happening. They look on as Sentinels and helicarriers are attacking, but Hijack returns and saves the day. Scott reveals to everyone that it was Dark Beast who attacked them, but what happened was on Maria Hill's watch.
Battle of the Atom
Emma Frost and the rest of the Uncanny X-Men arrive on the scene of a battle to team up with Kitty Pryde and her students consisting of the remaining Original Five X-Men. After the destruction of all the sentinels, one of the heads remains active and kills the younger Cyclops, causing the older one to disappear and cease to exist. Emma gets Christopher to revive the younger Scott Summers, and the older one returns back to reality. After the battle, the Uncanny X-Men leave and return to their school where they watch the footage of their fight for studying. Emma ends up having a telepathic battle with the older Jean Grey from the future by being a conduit for the Stepford Cuckoos' telepathy, but Emma is ultimately defeated. More and more X-Men from the future continue to come to the present. Emma, along with the rest of the X-Men, continue to battle the designated evil future team. S.H.I.E.L.D.'s anti-mutant weapon armament is completely activated, and the X-Men work together to finish the battle while they manage to stop the assault, but not without some casualties.
Original Sin
Emma Frost was recruited by a mysterious boss during the events of Original Sin to join a team of three that included Ant-Man and the Black Panther. Other teams of two or three were also being formed, and each group led a mini-investigation of the death of Uatu the Watcher. Their investigations would eventually lead all the involved parties to a supposedly secret space station, in which all the teams argued with each other and tried to answer some of their questions. Who had led them there? Who were they working for? And why? Fighting broke out as an enraged Gamora threatened the Winter Soldier who appeared to have murdered Nick Fury. Emma Frost came to his defense, shifting into diamond form, and smashing her fist into Gamora, who returned the blow in kind. Eventually, things cleared up. The Nick Fury that Bucky had "killed" was actually a Life Model Decoy. The real Nick Fury revealed himself to the teams as the mysterious boss that they had been working for. He explained his story to them - that he was the "man on the wall" doing terrible things to defend Earth. He had selected each of them and led them to the space station so that he might choose one of them to become his successor. He believed they each possessed a special and lethal set of skills that would make them right for the job. The Avengers back on Earth soon caught on, and made their way to the space station to investigate. A battle between the Avengers, Fury, and Fury's possible successors ensued. When all was cleared up, and Fury was presumed dead, the heroes, including Emma returned to Earth ... except for Thor, who because of something Fury whispered to him, was unworthy of his hammer, and could no longer lift it.
The Last Will and Testament of Charles Xavier
Emma is seen with Dazzler, Magneto, and Magik at Mystique's old hideout in search of her. They find nothing and head back to the New Xavier School. Emma talks with Scott that he needs to apologize to David for kicking him off the team. Later on, the Jean Grey Institute Staff arrive at Scott's school and tell him that he needs to come with them about Xavier's will. Emma volunteers to go in Scott's place, but they all head to the JGS, and there She-Hulk begins reading the will and announces that Xavier was married to Mystique. Emma ends up being the only one to laugh at the new found revelation. Emma sat and listened with most of the Will as Xavier explained how he was forced to psychically and slowly, lobotomize a young mutant by the name of Matthew Malloy since Xavier could not help him and his powers were too strong to control. After Xavier mentions that this goes against everything he taught the X-Men that no mutant should ever be left behind, but he did to this one, only periodically reinforcing the psychic blocks he built in the child over the years. With Xavier telling them that the rest of the will is to be played after Cyclops and Wolverine, along with Rachel Grey, reinforce the mental blocks on Matthew, Cyclops has an outburst of anger. While he refuses to help Xavier due to being lied to, Emma is the only one who seems to get through to him, and thus, he leaves for Xavier's final request with Emma staying behind at the Jean Grey Institute.Emma is with Kitty and Dazzler when Beast walks in with the rest of the JGS staff to warn them that no one is going to help them, but that SHIELD is planning on attacking and killing Malloy, whom Cyclops is with. Beast gets an update that Scott was killed during an attack on Malloy. Upon hearing this, Emma storms out of the Jean Grey School and onto the lawn, and in her grief, causes a massive psychic projection that harms the staff and students of the school along with the Cuckoos back at the New Xavier School. Matthew Malloy appears on the front lawn in front of her, and Emma asks if he was there with Scott. After he replies yes, Emma punches him, and in reflex Malloy accidentally kills her.After Eva goes back in time to find a younger Xavier, she tells him what is going on, and they fix it by making sure Malloy's parents never conceive Matthew and Eva return back to her timeline, which has then prevented any of the teachers from dying. The will is finished and Scott inherits the Jean Grey School, but he signs it over to Storm and asks for her to take in his students, and all Emma says is Scott just shut down the school.After the events of the Last Will and Testament of Charles Xavier, Scott has shut down his school and transferred the students to the Jean Grey Institute. Emma questions Scott about the revolution and what it truly meant. She suggests they start all over. Scott shoots her down, but Emma reveals her powers have returned and that he is conflicted about her and that she is to him as well. She wishes him good luck and she leaves the school.
Death of X
Emma reappears during the 8-month gap after Secret Wars and has returned to Cyclops' team. They are investigating a distress call they received from Muir Island. They discover the death of Multiple Man, and upon further investigation, realize there is a Terrigen Cloud around the island. Shortly afterward, it causes Cyclops to die. Emma then uses her telepathy to make a projection of Cyclops as if he is alive and orchestrates the whole plan of Death of X. The Cuckoos help her project this image of Cyclops to everyone on the entire planet. Emma's projection of Cyclops gives a speech, warning everyone about the toxicity of the Terrigen Mist. She uses this projection to warn the world of the cloud, recruit the mutant known as Alchemist to alter the cloud and destroy one of them. She uses this projection to attack the Inhumans and destroys half of the Terrigen Mists. The Inhuman royals intervene and the projection of Cyclops 'dies' at the hands of Black Bolt, giving Cyclops a meaningful death. Emma later reveals to Havok that Cyclops died before all of this and that she simply wanted to give his death meaning for all that he did for the world. A truce between the X-Men and the Inhumans has been negotiated, and Emma leaves, giving them time to find a solution.
Inhumans vs X-Men
Emma returns to the X-Men after they fail to find a solution to the problem of the toxic Terrigen Mist. A meeting of mutant leaders is held to discuss their plan. Beast reveals that the mutants have one week left to live. They listen to Emma and decide it is finally time to go to war. Emma infiltrates Black Bolt's club and uses Dazzler to take out the former king and most powerful Inhuman, thus starting their official attack on the Inhumans. In her diamond form, she is impervious to his vocal blasts, and smashes his voice box, breaking his jaw and preventing Black Bolt from using his powers.As the events of IvX roll on, Emma leads the mutants against the Inhumans in a final battle. Black Bolt attempts to blitz attack Emma with his super speed, but she manages to eliminate Black Bolt from the battle by impaling him with her diamond form arm. The cloud is finally dealt with and destroyed by Medusa, but Emma attacks the Inhumans with reprogrammed sentinels, attacking their species in the fashion they did to mutants for so long. As Inhuman reinforcements arrive under the leadership of Ahura Boltagon, Emma has her sentinels destroy their ships, effectively murdering hundreds of Inhumans. The X-Men and Inhumans unite against her. She takes over Magneto to further the assault but the control is soon broken and she is restrained by Medusa, only to be freed by Havok and disappears. She is last seen donning a Magneto-style helmet with an X across it, the same design as Scott's final visor, waiting to make her next move. The X-Men, Inhumans, and Magneto all vow to hunt her down.
Secret Empire
When Captain America is revealed to be the leader of Hydra and begins his takeover of the world, Emma strikes a deal with him to ensure the safety of the mutant population. With the help of Sebastian Shaw, Hank McCoy, and Xorn, Emma forms New Tian - the new mutant homeland. As a part of her deal with Hydra, Emma keeps the mutant population docile by telepathically controlling them. She also controls Xorn, who is a mere figurehead she has propped up as the King of New Tian. Emma operates from the former X-Men base of Utopia, which has been rebuilt. New Tian's mission is to take in all refugees, human or mutant, but mutants tend to be treated better in New Tian.Though Emma has thrown in with Hydra, she does not condone their actions and is merely using them to keep mutants safe in this new world. Behind the scenes, she is working against them. She has stolen a piece of the cosmic cube from Shang Chi and intends on using it against Captain America and Hydra. The members of X-Men Blue, led by the time-displaced Jean Grey and guided in secret by Magneto, attack New Tian believing that Emma is a Hydra villain. Emma's allies confront them, and Cyclops is taken to her citadel. Emma telepathically toys with teenage Cyclops, until the other X-Men come to free him.Eventually, Captain America realizes Emma has a piece of the cube and sends Hydra forces to invade New Tian. The invasion force has orders to bring Emma in, along with the cube fragment. Emma refuses, saying she will go and hand the fragment in herself as a sign of good will, and she will negotiate a cease-fire, not a surrender. She threatens to unleash King Xorn on the Hydra forces if they do not accept her terms. Emma marches into the capital, while the remaining heroes are fighting Hydra forces. The battle looks bleak until Captain America tells Emma he will not allow a ceasefire and will instead attack the mutants. Emma turns on him, promising no mutant will kneel to Hydra, and orders Magneto to tear Captain America's aircraft out of the sky, turning the tide of the battle.When Hydra has been defeated, Emma must once again negotiate with the US government, and the kingdom of New Tian is torn down, by Sentinels, no less, and the population is reintegrated with the United States.
All Hail the King
Emma Frost asks to meet with some of the X-Men to request their help on a mission. Emma wishes to finally overthrow the Hellfire Club and take them down. She plans for the X-Men team to divide and conquer and take out many high ranking officials at once while she deals with Sebastian Shaw.Emma encounters Shaw and he overpowers her before succumbing to a paralyzing agent Emma's associate, a girl Shaw was just with, planted in his drink. She uses this time to mock Shaw, reminding him of when he made her his White Queen. She tells him it is only right that she officially takes his title away. Emma then changes into a black version of her dress and becomes the new Black King of the Hellfire Club. She declares to change the way the club is used after counseling with grieving members of the club that wish for said change, under her management.
This is Forever
Emma reappears with Mystique at her side, still acting as the Black King of the Hellfire Club, where she appears to be telepathically mind wiping the X-Men of who she is. It's shown that Emma was captured, tortured, and forced to work for Callahan into giving him the mutant cure Beast worked on years ago, going so far as to having members of her Hellfire Club killed. She also goes and hides herself from Cyclops but confesses her love to him before going away. She is also revealed to have caused Mystique to pretend to be Captain America, the one helping Cyclops. This all a part of Emma's plan to defeat Callahan and while at a meeting with her group and the rescued Mr. Sinister, Wolverine shows up with Kwannon.Wolverine and Kwannon attack but are defeated by Callahan and his forces when they show up. Callahan locks Emma up inside the Hellfire Club, telling her she can't be trusted and they never had a deal. Emma then mentally reaches out to Cyclops, restoring his memories, and telling him she needs his, and the X-Men's, help.Scott and his team rescue Emma. She has Sinister perform a surgery on her to remove the bomb Callahan implanted in her head, and after doing so, uses her telepathy to wipe the planet's knowledge and memories of mutants ever existing. She teams with X-Men to finally defeat Callahan.
House of X
Emma and two of the Cuckoos arrive at the Project Achilles Supermax where Victor Creed is being charged for his crimes. She states due to the new law of all Krakoan citizens, being mutants, are given diplomatic immunity. When leaving, she tells the council to get used to it for the world is changing. Emma was initially approached by Xavier about using the Hellfire Club to say they are transporting Krakoa's drug, and return for Emma's services, she would be granted a seat on Xavier's council, but on the condition Sebastian Shaw is inducted back into the Hellfire Club. Emma agrees but ups the condition to three seats.
Dawn of X
When the Savage Land gateway of Krakoa becomes unresponsive, resulting in the island feeling pain, Emma accompanies Cyclops and Sebastian Shaw to the Savage Land to find out why. They encounter a group of elderly, radical botanists that want to destroy almost all of humanity and restore the planet to what it once was. By using their anti-mutant tech and age, they manage to defeat Cyclops and Sebastian Shaw before Emma goes diamond form and confronts them, only for them to leave.When Storm Is found comatose on island, Jean and Emma venture into Storm's mindscape to see what could be wrong. They find her and discover that the Children of the Vault gave her a machine virus and she will die in 30 days.
Hellfire Trading Company
Emma asks Kitty to work for her as part of the Hellfire Trading Company to move their life saving drugs while also acting as mutant liberators for anyone who cannot reach Krakoa. Emma provides Kitty and her crew with a massive boat for their travels. She also discusses with Sebastian Shaw how she wants him to handling his duties with the trading company, as he now works under her. She also brings forth that Kitty Pryde is now the Red Queen of the Hellfire Club, a decision Emma made when she was the sole member of the board before returning Shaw into the fold.Emma, Kitty, Shaw and the rest of council of the company discuss a meeting to head to Madripoor. Emma downloads the Krakoan language into Kitty's mind. They toast to their success and Kitty wonders how her life would've been had she found Emma first. Emma heads off to help accustom the new batch of mutants to the island.Emma recruits Callisto has her White Knight of the Hellfire Club. Emma discovers that Yellowjacket is inside Pyro. By trapping him in an illusion, she gives time for Magneto to pull him out and fling him off into the horizon. Emma then telepathically meets with the children Hellfire Club and warns them to not interfere before she psionically makes them feel as if they were set on fire.With a former partner of Forge working with the Russians to make mutant dampening devices, Emma and the team are tasked with taking them all out. Arriving in a UFO dubbed the Mercury, Emma and team are teleported onto the ship where Emma dispatches a group of men and confiscates the dampening firearm. Emma wipes the whole crew and dumps them elsewhere. Emma attends the funeral for Kitty Pryde and when mourning in silence, Lockheed arrives. He shows her that it was Shaw who killed Kitty and vows to make him pay. She convinces Charles to attempt once more at resurrecting Kitty, despite multiple failures. Emma uses her powers to get Kitty tangible and break through the resurrection husk to finally revive her. Emma throws a party with the mutants Kitty helped save where Emma shows her that it was Shaw who killed her. Emma and Kitty visit Shaw the next morning, and Emma punishes him for attempting to kill her Red Queen. Sebastian is severely beaten and loses an eye as part of Emma's reprimand.
X of Swords
Apocalypse presents his grandson, Summoner, to the council as he explains that they visited the Otherworld and were attacked by the forces of Arrako, the other part of Krakoa. With Apocalypse having established these gates, Emma votes to destroy the main gate.
Orchis 
With Orchis attacking Krakoa and forcing mutants into hiding, Emma goes undercover with the alias Hazel Kendal, pretending to work for Tony Stark. At a party, Emma notices Feilong, one of the leaders of Orchis, is there, having seized control of Stark Enterprises. Tony takes Emma into another room but she starts fighting him. Feilong walks in on them with Stark looking like he is proposing to Emma and goes along with it as Feilong stares at the two.