
Age of Apocalypse (Earth-295)
In the Age of Apocalypse alternate reality, Emma never joins the Hellfire Club or even the X-Men. At some point in her past, she was lobotomized, which eliminated all traces of her mutant abilities. She still retains the visible scar on the side of her head, which her hair no longer grows upon. Due to her wealthy background, she is placed on the Higher Council along with Moira MacTaggert, Bolivar Trask, Mariko Yashida and Brian Braddock. During her time as a member of the Council, she begins a romantic relationship with Brian, who was secretly working for Apocalypse. Emma lead a strike team against Apocalypse. While most people escaped a blast, it is unknown what became of Emma and whether she survived or not.
Ultimate Universe (Earth-1610)
Emma Frost of the Ultimate universe is a former student of Charles Xavier. Xavier and Frost became romantically involved while Xavier was still in a relationship with Mystique, causing Mystique to angrily lash out at Xavier in a grotesque form until Emma had to diamond-punch her. Emma was even responsible for the naming of Xavier's cat, saying it should be named Mystique when it destroyed his office in a similar manner to the actual Mystique. Emma and Charles, however, didn’t make it as a couple. Frost leaves Xavier for mostly ideological differences as she thinks his approach to the mutant/human relation was too violent. Frost is more passive towards working on the mutant/human relation then Xavier. Frost goes back to Chicago and becomes a teacher giving mutant education seminars. The governor is very supportive of Frost's idea and helped introduce her to the White House chief of staff and eventually met the President.They come up with the New Mutants which is supposed to help educate humans about mutants while cutting ties with Xavies. During a press conference, Emma, the New Mutants, and even the President are attacked by Sentinels. Xavier and the X-Men came to help them. Xavier tried to convince Emma to come back to the school but she declined and returned to Chicago. In Chicago, she creates a new program called Academy of Tomorrow (the X-Men-like squad of the school being the Ultimate version of the New Mutants). She was later shown to be dating Shinobi Shaw (son of the deceased leader of the club, Sebastian Shaw). After Shinobi is arrested for attacking Jean Grey in order to release the Phoenix Force she was revealed to be the White Queen of this universe's Hellfire Club (wearing an outfit highly similar to her mainstream counterpart's White Queen garb) and requesting a new boyfriend. During the Ultimatum event, she is later confirmed dead by Madrox in issue #3.This version of Emma dresses more modestly and professionally than her mainstream counterpart, with even her initial outfit similar to her mainstream counterpart's White Queen costume showing very little skin. It is only when she is revealed as the White Queen that she wears the more revealing attire recognizable by her alternate counterpart. She also wore glasses most of the time (including as the White Queen). She also displays only her diamond form and is not shown using telepathy, though she was silenced before mentioning other powers.
House of M (Earth-58163)
During the events of House of M, Emma is a child therapist and is happily married to Cyclops and they have three kids. Emma was the first person contacted by Wolverine. Layla Miller restored the memories of Emma and Cyclops. With Emma's psychic abilities, Emma goes around and restored the memories of all the other heroes. They would go on to gather other heroes to attack the House of M. While the heroes battle Magnus, Emma and a few other heroes begin to look for Professor Xavier.
Age of Ultron (Earth-61112)
Emma was among the few survivors of Ultron's return and takeover. After Cyclops was killed by Ultron's forces, Emma left and found the other survivors. She served as the group's telepath, helping to scan areas for other survivors. She also helped Iron Man affirm that Hawkeye and Spider-Man hadn't been injected with some sort of tracking device or weapon. Emma traveled with the survivors to the Savage Land and found a secret bunker set up by Nick Fury, who met them there. Emma was unable to pick up any psychic signatures in the Savage Land, but Ka-Zar was present there. She was also unable to penetrate the walls of the bunker. The fact that it was built to keep out telepaths concerned her. Select members of the group were to travel in time to the future. Emma stayed behind while Fury's group left. Her fate after that is unknown.
Age of Le Fay (Earth-26111)
When the 'Age of Ultron' timeline was altered by Wolverine and the Invisible Woman during their visit to the past to kill off Hank Pym before he created Ultron, a new future was created ... the Age of Le Fay. In this future, Charles Xavier is still alive, and both he and Emma work for Tony Stark and S.H.I.E.L.D. as telepathic informants. They scanned the minds of the time-displaced Wolverine and Invisible Woman to verify their accounts. Emma determined that they were telling the truth. In this future, Morgana Le Fay is a constant threat to the civilization built by the heroes. Emma and Xavier were sent by Stark to send the Defenders (the group that replaced the Avengers and picked up Sue and Logan) back to their Defender Sanctorum. The group did not want to comply, and forced their way into the Starkguard Carrier despite Emma and Xavier's attempts to stop them. Amidst this conflict, Morgana Le Fay commenced another attack, drawing the full attention of the Defenders of S.H.I.E.L.D. Emma presumably joined in the fight. During the chaos, Sue and Logan were able to slip away. Emma's fate after this episode is unknown.
Hellfire Club Failing Reality (Earth-27538)
In this reality briefly visited by the Exiles Emma is still the White Queen of the Hellfire Club.
X-Men: The End (Earth-41001)
Emma is know as Mrs Scott Summers and together they have four children, twin daughters, a son named Alex and a daughter named Megan, who has telepathic powers. Emma is shown to be very protective of her children due to her seeing a fair share of students dying and cannot see her children suffer the same fate.
Home World of Crusader X (Earth-2122)
Emma was enslaved by the Shadow King and was killed when Mastermind use her to boost his powers up in an attempt to corrupt Jean Grey.
Earth-889
Emma leads the X-Society along with Cyclops. Wolverine and Beast. The team investigates occurrences in New Albion (which is known as California). Emma also refused Cyclops proposals stating her desire to avoid the "tedious scandal" so it would not cause any issues between the two of them. After a misunderstanding for being blamed for the deaths of the passengers in Hindenburg Disaster, the government placed the X-Society under house arrest so Emma migrated to Europe and was married to Cyclops. She later reappeared as Emmeline Frost-Summers, having married Cyclops, in the "Exaltation" storyline in "Astonishing X-Men", when Scott Summers from Earth-616 had been kidnapped by an alternate version of Charles Xavier known as "Savior". The world that this Xavier lived in was literally breaking apart, and only the power of Scott's optic beams were able to hold it together. However the price of this was the ultimate sacrifice: death. So Savior abducted the Scott Summers of various alternate Earths sacrificing them against their will to maintain his own world. Earth-616 Scott broke Emmeline out of her prison, and along with alternate versions of Storm, Nightcrawler, and Wolverine (known as Howlett only), they attempted to stop Savior. Reinforcements soon arrived in the form of Earth-616's Emma Frost and Ororo Munroe, who fought beside their alternate Earth counterparts. Emma helped Emmeline up and the two launched a telepathic assault against Savior. Once Savior had been stopped, Emmeline and the other aforementioned members of Scott's crew decided to remain there and band together to save that Earth. Emmeline revealed that the Scott she married - the Scott of Earth-889 - had suffered the fate Savior intended. He had died holding the world together with the energy of his optic beams. This makeshift new team would later become ... the X-Treme X-Men! Kurt Waggoner of the United States of California, General Howlett of the Dominion of Canada, and Emmeline Frost-Summers of the New Albion X-Society would soon be joined by Earth-616's Alison Blaire, aka Dazzler. They would embark on a journey to save different realities. The only way they could do this was by killing the evil Charles Xaviers in each reality. In first reality they traveled to, they stumbled immediately into the Pantheon of the Gods: Namor, god of the sea, Thor, god of thunder, Sabretooth, god of the wild, Warran, god of the air and sky, Draka, god of ice and snow, and Storm, the All-Mother. Emmeline bows to the gods so as not to incur their wrath. Alison has a problem doing so. After a brief battle with the gods, Xavier and Magnus arrive to whisk the team away to their version of Utopia. Emmeline and the head of Xavier, however, remain as telepathic servants to the gods. The X-treme X-Men return along with Magnus and Xavier only to find that the Xavier they thought was good was really manipulating the gods into killing mortals. The X-treme X-Men saved and freed the gods. In return for their favor, the All-Mother Storm offered them godhood. Emmeline decided to accept the offer, and the All-Mother began the transformation process. Emmeline notes that the one thing she had that was a weakness was her heart (emotion). The process of granting her godhood had removed that one weakness, and in the process, Emmeline's flesh turned to flawless diamond. Emmeline became the Diamond Queen, goddess of perfection and the mind.
Age of Xavier (Earth-77995)
Emma is a member of the Hellfire Club and is married to Iceman. Followers of Apocalypse attack the pair and stab Emma with a knife, killing her. Angered by the death of his wife, Iceman tries to avenge her death, but is killed in a fight against Pyro.
Days of Future Past (Earth-811)
Emma was once the White Queen of the Hellfire Club but went to India after a number of mutants were wiped out. In service of the mutant leaders, Emma sold her mental powers. Magneto and Jubilee then approached her and told her that they need help in saving Wolverine since the aforementioned hero was brainwashed by Psylocke who was the Red Queen of Hellfire Club at that time. With her powers, she was able to retrieve Wolverine's memories. She also attempted to bring Psylocke back to the side of good.
Exiles
In a reality where Warlock's techno-organic virus and the Legacy Virus have interacted, 75% percent have been converted into Vi-Locks. Emma played an important role to the team as she used her telepathy to mentally communicate with other super humans who aims to look for the cure. With her telepathy, the Vi-Locks were unable to detect how they communicate. Emma is paraplegic and uses a wheelchair.
New Exiles
This version is known as Dame Emma Frost. She was the founder of Force X and head of Department X.
Old Man Logan
Emma tricks others by using her telepathy to make herself appear young to others. Also, this ability is used by her to make her people follow her. Emma survives the attack that wiped other super beings. In this reality, she is the most powerful telepath. To assure herself that both races will survive, Emma Frost marries Black Bolt. Along with her husband, they rule United States of America where mutants can live freely like other normal beings. She tells her husband to save Wolverine and Hawkeye from a Savage Land T-Rex who was possessed by Venom.
Young X-Men: End Days (Earth-38730)
Much of Emma's history is unknown, but it is presumed that she was one of the very first citizens in Xaviera, a haven for all mutants (which some people compare to Genosha). At some point, for reasons unknown, Emma changes her name from the White Queen to Diamondheart. As she one of the last remaining members of the X-Men, she had seen many of her friends and comrades die at the hands of Dust, including her lover who was presumably Cyclops. Emma remains in her organic diamond form most of the time as she is less vulnerable to attack and does not change back to normal. She finds and attacks Dust, but is killed when she creates a whirlwind, suffocating her.
Ruins (Earth-9591)
Emma is the highest priestess of the church of the Next Generation. She legally adopted the children of her followers and made them unlock their psychic abilities through a surgery.
Marvel Mangaverse (Earth-2301)
Emma is a member of the Hellfire Club that was lead by her father Charles Xavier. Their objective is to abduct Jean and bring her to the group. Though, the X-Men became a great hindrance. Toad then advised the X-Men for defeating the Hellfire Club and bring her father back to the X-Men.
Marvel Adventures (Earth-20051)
This version of Emma Frost is a teenager and best friends with Sophia Sanduval (aka Chat), and uses her mental powers to get through life easier. She soon discovers Peter Parker is Spider-Man and grows interested in him. With her powers she decides to become the Silencer and test Peter's capabilities. A few days later Peter finds Emma in her Silencer costume eating in Chat's apartment. Thinking she is going to attack her again Peter breaks in to confront her. While chasing her through the building her runs into Chat and explains their situation to him. Peter then helps Emma escape from the police. Emma eventually turns herself into the police, with it being stated that since she's a minor, she'll likely get a reduced sentence for her crimes.Following her arrest, Emma is sent to a juvenile detention center for girls. After serving out her sentence, Emma is offered a job by the Blonde Phantom, and begins working at her detective agency.
Boss Frost (Earth-32134)
In the Mondo City region of Battleworld, Emma Frost was part of the Boss Enforcement Council. As psychics were the one type of mutant not considered to be in violation of Mondo City's "Genetic Decency Act," Emma was recruited as a child to be part of the Psi-Division. When the Bosses invaded Yinsen City, Emma and her cohorts clashed with the Defenders. Emma was distracted after being mentally attacked by the White Tiger God within Ava Ayala's amulet, which allowed She-Hulk to knock her unconscious. After the situation was resolved, Emma was seen as one of the Bosses making peace with the Defenders.
X-Men Noir (Earth-7207)
Emma Frost is the warden of Genosha Bay, a prison for Earth's worst sociopaths. Emma was a student of Professor X at Harvard University. She believes that living with a sociopath can turn a person in a sociopath as well, so she keeps her most dangerous inmates isolated from the others. This version of Emma seems to have a bondage fetish as referred to when she is tied up in prison.
Earth-TRN667
On this Earth, the Fantastic Four disbanded back in the Silver Age after their disastrous first battle against Galactus, which ended with the brutal death of Ben Grimm and Doctor Doom becoming the new devourer of worlds after stealing Galactus' body. The ripple effect of this incident led to a greatly altered Marvel Universe, with most of the planet's heroes becoming agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. after the events of the Secret Invasion. For unknown reasons, Emma Frost did not end up as one of these heroes, and instead married Norrin Radd, who'd lost his abilities after relinquishing the Power Cosmic to Johnny Storm. The two retired to a small farm together, but their peaceful existence was disturbed when the Earth-616 versions of Johnny and Ben arrived in search of help. Emma fired at the two with a shotgun, apparently believing them to be Skrull impostors, but agreed to hear them out after using her telepathy to confirm they were who they claimed to be. Learning that Doom was returning to consume the planet, Emma attempted to use her powers to switch bodies with him, but was bound and gagged by Doom's Earth-616 counterpart, who sought to take Emma's place and became the new devourer of worlds. However, Johnny convinced him to let Emma do it instead, and Doom eventually relented. Emma successfully completed the body switch, and was able to rewrite Galactus' own nature, causing the creature to become a Lifebringer rather than a destroyer. Now in Galactus' body, Emma and the repowered Silver Surfer set out to recreate the universe.