 Abusive Parents: Both her parents are in the running for some of the worst in the DCU. Shiva is trying to be better, though.
 The Ace: Pre-New 52, she is named the greatest fighter in the DCU for good reason. After all, she beat the former holder of that title: her own mother.
 Action Girl: A lot of people are in agreement that she is quite possibly the greatest martial artist on the planet. At least, when the writers treat her well.
 Affirmative-Action Legacy: Both the first Asian Batgirl and the first disabled Batgirl. More generally, she was the first non-white person to be a member of the Batfamily. She's also this as Orphan, as a disabled Asian girl taking over from her father, a disabled white man (she cut his hand off, and he replaced it with a prosthetic). Both she and Batman expressed the intention for her to eventually replace him as Gotham's protector, which would make her a disabled non-white woman taking the place of a neurotypical white man (though it's debatable how neurotypical Bruce Wayne is). However, the events of One Year Later derailed that plan.
 She's also this as Orphan, as a disabled Asian girl taking over from her father, a disabled white man (she cut his hand off, and he replaced it with a prosthetic).
 Both she and Batman expressed the intention for her to eventually replace him as Gotham's protector, which would make her a disabled non-white woman taking the place of a neurotypical white man (though it's debatable how neurotypical Bruce Wayne is). However, the events of One Year Later derailed that plan.
 Age Lift: Pre-Reboot she was in her early twenties, around Jason's age. However, in Rebirth she appears to be closer to Tim's age, in her mid teens.
 All-Loving Hero: As Stephanie's "ghost" tells her, she cares about everyone. It takes a special sort of this to be willing to die for a random Mook.
 Amazon Chaser: Implied by her agreeing with Batwoman that she "wants to marry" Zatanna while the latter is fighting demons.
 Amazonian Beauty: She tends to attract a lot of male attention, and Depending on the Artist is very muscular.
 Ambiguously Bi: She agrees with Batwoman's comment that she "wants to marry [Zatanna]," but was seen attracted to men Pre-Flashpoint. DC Future State, which is described as one of the probable futures the DCU can take, also ups her Les Yay with Stephanie, making it seem like they were a couple at one point.
 Animal-Themed Superbeing: Bats, as both Batgirl and Black Bat.
 Another Man's Terror: Turned her good and inspired her Thou Shalt Not Kill attitude because of her body-reading ability. Death was just scary.
 Anti-Hero Substitute: Subverted in the original series. Cassandra's outfit and backstory scream this when contrasted with Barbara Gordon's, but she is very much The Cape.
 Arrogant Kung-Fu Guy: A Lighter and Softer take on the trope. While an antisocial, temperamental, and very cocky martial arts master, she's also genuinely extremely compassionate and while she's extremely confident about her abilities her self-image is much less positive.
 The Atoner: More or less her motivation is to make up for her first kill.
 Awesomeness by Analysis: How she manages to defeat the Brotherhood of Evil singlehandedly.
 Back from the Dead: Twice, both times at the hands of her mother, Lady Shiva. Of course, both deaths were, directly or indirectly, caused by Shiva.
 Big Eater: At least after really tough fights.
 Blood Knight: Hates killing, but obviously loves fighting.
 Book Dumb: Originally, she barely was able to speak and couldn't read at all (she had trouble reading the words it was). Then, during her Face–Heel Turn, she miraculously gained the ability to speak and read perfectly. As of DC Rebirth, she's back to being illiterate and unable to speak more than a few words at a time.
 Brainwashed and Crazy: Her Face–Heel Turn was explained away as Deathstroke the Terminator drugging her with the same stuff that drove his daughter insane. In his words, he stole Cassandra from the Bat Family as revenge for Nightwing "stealing" Ravager.
 But Not Too Foreign: Half Asian, half white. This is emphasized by the fact that, Depending on the Artist, she can have blue or green eyes (very improbable for a half-Asian person).
 Can't Hold Her Liquor: According to Superboy, she was a complete lightweight at the party he hosted at the Fortress of Solitude.
 The Cape: Espoused the virtues of not killing while bleeding to death from a knife in the chest.
 Cartwright Curse: Pre-Flashpoint, almost every guy she expressed interest in (and the women she had Les Yay with) ended up dying. To name a few, John Robinson (though that was more of a Precocious Crush), Black Wind, Superboy, Zero, and Brenda Miller were killed off, and Stephanie Brown was killed before it was retconned that she was Faking the Dead. The only people she had Ship Tease with who didn't die were Coldcast and Tim Drake.
 Charles Atlas Superpower: Super body language reading. Moreover, her Training from Hell allows her to perform such feats as throwing a Batarang, then racing ahead of the missile and catching it before it hits the target. In fact, when she encountered a group of rogue government agents, their computers identified her as having Super-Speed and Super-Strength, surprising them when a blood test showed that she wasn't actually a metahuman.
 Chekhov's Gunman: Downplayed, but she's initially just an agent of Oracle before rising in prominence to join the actual Bat Family.
 Chuck Cunningham Syndrome: For a few years after the New 52 began.
 Classical Anti-Hero: An unusual example. Cassandra is in fact extremely skilled, but in her Batgirl solo she fails constantly due to a combination of inexperience, her own personal flaws, and most of all bad luck and circumstances outside of her control. One of the main themes of the book is that even someone with her extreme level of skill simply cannot save everyone, but her guilt complex keeps her from internalizing that lesson for a long time, leading to constant emotional turmoil on her part as she fails to live up to her own impossible standards.
 Combat Stilettos: Lampshaded; when she steals Barbara's costume, she trips on the heels and it disrupts her Waif-Fu.
 Competition Freak: While Cassandra is normally quite amicable she's also very competitive and can be a Sore Loser.
 Contagious Heroism: Lifelong Professional Killer Alpha made a Heel–Face Turn after working with her while he was amnesiac and realizing she was the girl who he'd helped train under Cain. The concept of someone with that background being able to become a hero made him decide that he wasn't Beyond Redemption after all.
 Corruption of a Minor: On the recieving end; assassin David Cain attempted to turn his daughter into the perfect killer; not even teaching her how to talk (so that the language centers of her brain would focus on body language and make her that much more perceptive and deadly in combat). However, she rebeled after her first murder and fled (because reading the body language of a dying man was so horrific), ultimately becoming Batgirl.
 Covered with Scars: Depending on the artist.
 Creepy Good: Her unsettling personal habits and disturbing costume tend to give other heroes the creeps, but she's a very kind person.
 Cute Bruiser: She's a 5'5", 115 pound, pretty, rather quiet Asian girl. She has the remarkable skill of reading body language, but what makes her a cute bruiser is her ability to tank bullets without flinching and punch through inches of quartz.
 Dance Battler: Post-Flashpoint, she works ballet moves into her fighting style.
 Dark Is Not Evil: Referred to as "Miss Dark and Spooky" by Steph, she still manages to be The Cape.
 Death Seeker: At first. When first introduced, the guilt she feels from the murder her father made her commit makes her seek out ways to die while helping others. She mostly gets over it after dying and coming back to life (the first time).
 Defusing the Tyke-Bomb: She defused herself.
 Dented Iron: Most of the time she is seen out of costume she is shown covered in scars, befitting her abusive upbringing and Bat Family vigilantism.
 Depending on the Artist: The most common interpretation is heavily scarred, skinny, and (comparatively) small-breasted, but that doesn't stop some artists. In addition, her height varies somewhat. Her official height is 5'5", but while speaking with Bronze Tiger she seems much smaller. Furthermore, her eye color and skin tone vary significantly.
 Dodge the Bullet: While many of the Bat-Family have been shown to evade gunfire, Cassandra has been explicitly shown to be able to dodge bullets after they've left the chamber. Taken to its most extreme when she dodges a full chamber of revolver shots at point-blank range while taking down Agent Masters.
 Dragon Lady: During her Face–Heel Turn. Not only does she monologue, she starts to flirt with Robin.
 Driven to Suicide: In her first appearance, her fight with David triggers her trauma from the incident, causing her to throw herself from the GCPD headquarters toward the street below. Bruce saves her, but it doesn't stop her death wish.
 Dying to Be Replaced: She does not die, but the writers had her abandon being Batgirl solely because they wanted to transfer the mantle to Stephanie Brown. It is eventually revealed that this is part of a plan by Bruce Wayne to force Stephanie to mature both personally and as a crime-fighter.
 Even the Loving Hero Has Hated Ones: While Cassandra shows love and compassion towards everybody, by the end of her solo series she has developed a clear hatred for her father, who she at first didn't even understand was abusive. She also hates Deathstroke due to his brainwashing of both her and his own daughter Rose.
 Extreme Omnivore: It doesn't get much more impressive than eating Lovecraftian horrors from the Shadowlands.
 Face–Heel Turn: She becomes the leader of the League of Assassins in the One Year Later relaunch and later becomes a member of Titans East. Retcon revealed that this was caused by Deathstroke's drugs.
 Gambit Roulette: It is revealed in a one-shot issue of the Stephanie Brown Batgirl series that Cassandra Cain abandoned the Batgirl identity on the orders of Bruce Wayne, who planned for the title to pass to Stephanie to force her to personally and professionally mature.
 Good Scars, Evil Scars: When the artists remember.
 Grappling-Hook Pistol: Standard Bat-family equipment.
 Happily Adopted: Pre-Flashpoint, she was Bruce Wayne's adopted daughter.
 Heroic Vow: What Thou Shalt Not Kill is to her post-Flashpoint: she's able to see numerous ways to kill her opponents, and has to focus, has to restrain herself, to make non-lethal attacks. This was touched on a few times in pre-Flashpoint continuity, but not given as much focus.
 Heterosexual Life-Partners: With Stephanie.
 I Am Not a Gun: She decided this after her first kill, despite being trained to be the ultimate assassin.
 Inexplicably Awesome: While her training explains her skill and ability to read body language, other elements like her seemingly superhuman ability to coordinate her body in combat and her bizarre blood chemistry are never explained.
 Intergenerational Friendship: She developed one with Clayface, shortly after his Heel–Face Turn, even performing Shakespeare with him on occasion.
 In the Hood: Her costume in Batman and Robin Eternal.
 Irony: Her father gave her Training from Hell involving lack of verbal communication in the hopes that she would become the ultimate killing machine and assassin. The enhanced body-reading skills that she acquired from this very training ended up playing an enormous part in her decision to reject killing and become a crime-fighter.
 Lamarck Was Right: Her instinctive grasp of martial arts is suggested to come from her mother. Cain notes that he put multiple kids through the same Training from Hell as her, but she was the only success. He isn't surprised at all.
 Legacy Character: Obviously with the Batgirl identity pre-Flashpoint, but in the New 52 continuity, she takes on her father's old code name of "Orphan"  after his death. She also has shown a consistent desire to become the next Batman, which even Bruce Wayne himself seems to approve of.
 Leroy Jenkins: A common habit of hers is to jump into situations without thinking because she's used to being able to win almost any fight with no preparation. This can cause problems when her objective is more complex than just "beat the bad guys", as shown when she accidentally ruined Batman and Robin's sting operation on a human trafficking network.
 Little Miss Badass: She's been a very good fighter since a very young age.
 Living Shadow: In her disguise as The Nothing, she uses the Shadow Thief's belt to become this.
 Logical Weakness: Because so much of her fighting style is based around reading body language, she has a hard time fighting foes who aren't human and thus don't have human body language (She was geared to read human body language so trying to read someone or something that's not human would be like trying to understand Russian when you speak Mandarin), people who can keep up with her body language reading ability (like her mother Shiva who is the deadliest assassin in the world and also seems to have this ability), people who are physically augmented to be able to perfectly coordinate and control their movements so as not to give away their moves while "bluffing" very well (this would apply to low-level enhanced individuals like Deathstroke whose body language Cassandra noted as being like a chorus that's "too fast with too many instruments" to pick up anything significant), and of course those who specialize in Confusion Fu (people like the Joker fall into this category as the Joker was overwhelming her in a fight much to Black Canary's shock. Batman explained that she can read the Joker's body language but to her "It's just gibberish".) Also, because she's reading body language, she obviously relies heavily on her eyes. While Cassandra can fight blind folded and detect movement with her other senses, taking away her sight or being unable to see her opponent greatly hinders her effectiveness as it would be the same as putting heavy ear muffs (While some words may get through, the dialogue is terribly muffled and some words may be missed). Cassandra has a harder time predicting her opponents and may be caught off guard.
 Also, because she's reading body language, she obviously relies heavily on her eyes. While Cassandra can fight blind folded and detect movement with her other senses, taking away her sight or being unable to see her opponent greatly hinders her effectiveness as it would be the same as putting heavy ear muffs (While some words may get through, the dialogue is terribly muffled and some words may be missed). Cassandra has a harder time predicting her opponents and may be caught off guard.
 Luke, I Am Your Father: Pre-Flashpoint, it took her some time to find out David Cain was her father by blood, not adoption.
 Made of Iron: For a tiny girl, she's survived some truly staggering trauma.
 Major Injury Underreaction: Sample exercise from her childhood training program? Getting shot, then being punished if she flinched. The lessons stuck.
 Malaproper: As a result of her lack of experience with language she sometimes mixes up words like "tourniquet" and "tournament" or "cheater" and "cheeser".
 Maybe Magic, Maybe Mundane: Though her abilities seem to be the result of her father's training, her mother, Lady Shiva, has similar ones despite her lack of such an upbringing, suggesting there is a hereditary component to it. Whatever the source of her abilities, genetic testing confirmed that she is not a metahuman.
 Missing Mom: Lady Shiva, who she knew for a while before finding out their relation. They do reunite... it's not happy.
 The Mole: In the Justice League Elite for the JLA.
 My God, What Have I Done?: Without even talking, this was how she regarded her first kill, being so traumatized by the horrific body language of her victim, that she immediately swore off killing.
 Mythology Gag: Her family name is almost certainly a reference to the original Bat-Girl's family name with a different spelling (Cain, as opposed to Kane).
 Name of Cain: Like her father, though she later takes on the Wayne name instead.
 Never Learned to Talk: She was taught to read body language as a child, not verbal language, so her father could mold her into the perfect assassin.
 No Social Skills: What with her upbringing, it would be odder if she did not have trouble interacting. She didn't even learn to speak before her pre-teens! There was also a famous scene in the 2007 run of Batman and the Outsiders where she strutted around in the nude, with Scenery Censor to cover up the naughty bits.
 O.O.C. Is Serious Business: After Cassandra’s brain is rewired to allow her to read and speak at the cost of her ability to read body language, Barbara is shocked to see her actually bruised as Batman said that literally nobody could hit Batgirl.
 Odd Friendship: She developed one with Clayface shortly after his Heel–Face Turn, largely due to the fact that she understands what it feels like to be an outsider.
 One-Man Army: Downplayed. She's almost unstoppable in a fight, and can take down Mooks by the dozen, but she can be tired out by enough opponents.
 One-Steve Limit: The second Wonder Girl is also called Cassandra. Usually Cassandra Cain is known as "Cass" and Cassandra Sandsmark is "Cassie", but sometimes members of the Batfamily will also call Cassandra Cain "Cassie". This is only really confusing when Tim does it, as he is close to both girls and, if the context is unclear, could be referring to either of them.
 Parental Substitute: Bruce and Barbara.
 Phlebotinum Rebel: Through a horrifyingly abusive system of child-rearing, her father created her to be one of the best (if not the best) martial artists in the world. Given that she became Batgirl and it took mind controlling drugs to execute her Face–Heel Turn, and it was temporary, his idea of creating the perfect assassin clearly didn't take.
 Platonic Life-Partners: She has this dynamic with Tim Drake in the Pre-Flashpoint timeline which was generally presented as a Like Brother and Sister relationship. After jointing Bruce's Outsiders in the Post-Flashpoint timeline, Cass develops this same type of dynamic with newcomer Duke Thomas.
 Put on a Bus: After the Infinite Crisis, she has a Face–Heel Turn, followed by a Heel–Face Turn, and is subsequently benched until being wiped away from existence by Flashpoint. She's finally reintroduced in Batman & Robin Eternal, however.
 The Quiet One: She speaks little and mostly with short words. This is the result of her father raising her without talking to her or letting her hear people talk, so that body language would be her language. Even after a telepath fixed her inability to talk pre-Flashpoint, she was never comfortable with words. The nature of her difficulty with language differs pre- and post-Flashpoint. Pre-Flashpoint, she started out with a near-total incapacity with language before encountering the telepath who rewired her brain. Post-Flashpoint, she does understand language, but forming what she wants to say in her mind is difficult for her.
 The nature of her difficulty with language differs pre- and post-Flashpoint. Pre-Flashpoint, she started out with a near-total incapacity with language before encountering the telepath who rewired her brain. Post-Flashpoint, she does understand language, but forming what she wants to say in her mind is difficult for her.
 A Real Man Is a Killer: Subversion.
 The Real Remington Steele: This is likely the reason Cassandra was created, especially since she takes the costume of the previous Batgirl shortly after her introduction.
 Retcon: The Author's Saving Throw is obvious, so let's discuss her origins. Even though her upbringing was a neverending training from hell, she did love her father, and yet she ran away from him. The reason was that her first kill was the very first time she had witnessed death up close and due to her body-reading abilities, she thought it to be very, very, scary. Thus she found out her upbringing was evil. Now enter the last issue of Adam Beechen's miniseries about her where it is revealed that she hated her dad all along, and that she had actually witnessed her father committing murder up close many times before her first kill. Her post-Flashpoint origin changes up a number of things: Her father raised her as he did as a secret project, an example for Mother, his superior, of the effectiveness of the "old ways" of reshaping a child into a desired tool through trauma (however, Mother wasn't happy when she found out he'd been hiding Cass from her). He exposed her to his killings up close in order to numb her to death, but it didn't work out, as her first murder, Harper Row's mother, drove her never to kill again. Her feelings about her father are complicated; she doesn't feel he managed to redeem himself, but she does honor him and mourn him. Her history with the Batfamily's been reset so she joins them as Orphan; she's not been Batgirl or Black Bat. Post-Death Metal many elements of her old backstory seem to have been restored, though how much is canon remains ambiguous.
 Her post-Flashpoint origin changes up a number of things: Her father raised her as he did as a secret project, an example for Mother, his superior, of the effectiveness of the "old ways" of reshaping a child into a desired tool through trauma (however, Mother wasn't happy when she found out he'd been hiding Cass from her). He exposed her to his killings up close in order to numb her to death, but it didn't work out, as her first murder, Harper Row's mother, drove her never to kill again. Her feelings about her father are complicated; she doesn't feel he managed to redeem himself, but she does honor him and mourn him. Her history with the Batfamily's been reset so she joins them as Orphan; she's not been Batgirl or Black Bat.
 Post-Death Metal many elements of her old backstory seem to have been restored, though how much is canon remains ambiguous.
 Silent Snarker: She doesn't make as many verbal quips as the other members of the family, but her body language conveys a lot of sass.
 Socially Awkward Hero: Not as much as Tim, but she is very socially awkward and often quotes TV and movies (since she uses them to help teach her to speak).
 Shoo the Dog: Much of her conflict with Stephanie comes from Cass driving her off due to either Bruce's orders or her own fears about Stephanie being hurt.
 The Spartan Way: She was trained to read human movement as her only language and become an unparalleled assassin in a classical Spartan way, up to and including being shot in non-vital areas as punishment--with the threat of being shot again for crying out from the pain.
 Stealth Hi/Bye: She pulls this almost as frequently as Batman himself. This is partly due to her lack of social skills, since she simply doesn't bother to announce her presence or departure.
 Super-Strength: Of the Charles Atlas Superpower variety, but even then her strength is still nigh-unbelievable.
 Super-Speed: In one issue she outruns a bullet.
 Taking the Bullet: One of her most impressive moments involved taking half a dozen rounds from an assault rifle in order to keep a Mook from getting hit by friendly fire.
 Tap on the Head: Often applied by Cassandra to Stephanie.
 Technical Pacifist: Just because she won't kill doesn't mean she won't stop your heart with pressure strikes so you understand what death will be like. She'll restart it afterwards, but...
 Terror Hero: Like her adopted father, Cass is very willing to use fear as a weapon, even incorporating tactics used by the Xenomorph in Alien to better frighten criminals.
 Thou Shalt Not Kill: Because of her ability to read body language, when she made her first kill she was able to understand the fear of death on an intimate level, and vowed to never take another life. She actually holds onto this rule even more firmly than the rest of the Bat-Family. However, she notes that she does not apply this policy to demons or the mindless undead.
 Tomboy and Girly Girl: Her and Steph had this dynamic, with Steph being the Girly-Girl to Cass' Tomboy. More recently, she's become the girly girl to Harper Row's tomboy.
 Too Hungry to Be Polite: Her life as a homeless runaway has caused her to have absolutely no manners when eating, much to the amusement of her friends.
 Took a Level in Jerkass: After Stephanie's death in War Games, Cass became much more temperamental and ruthless even before her editorially mandated Face–Heel Turn. This went away after her stint as a villain was over.
 The Tragic Rose: The rose is a recurring motif throughout her solo series, appearing symbolically in many places but most prominently in a literal rose that Barbara gives her as a gift, the care it requires representing Cassandra's need to learn to take care of herself and be around other people. The rose's death along with the destruction of Bludhaven represents Cassandra's Despair Event Horizon.
 Training from Hell: First nine or so years of her life were spent doing this.
 Twofer Token Minority: Half-Chinese-American woman who is illiterate and can barely speak.
 Tyke Bomb: She was trained from a young age to be an assassin. She was horrified by her first kill, and ran away. She subsisted on the streets, until encountering Batman and his allies.
 Vague Age: Pre-Flashpoint she was at least 18 by the time her solo series ended, but Post-Flashpoint things are a bit less certain. James Tynion IV says that she's about Tim's age in Detective Comics (Rebirth), but in Batman and Robin Eternal the timeline would indicate she's closer to Dick's age. Batgirls confuses things even further, with one writer referring to her and Stephanie as being in their early teens, the other saying they're in their later teens, and some scenes in the book itself implying they're in their early 20s.
 Waif-Fu: A 110 pound girl who is canonically the best non-powered fighter on the planet.
 Well-Trained, but Inexperienced: This is part of Cassandra Cain's backstory. She spent her whole childhood being trained to kill someone as easily as other humans talk, but when her father actually forced her to go through with it, the experience was so traumatic that she immediately swore never to kill anyone again. Later, in her early time as Batgirl, she was extremely technically proficient in combat but inexperienced in the field and had trouble facing metahumans and genuine supervillains. Her general solution to any problem was hitting people, which sometimes led to unfortunate consequences. It took some hard lessons for her to be more flexible and clever on the job.
 This is part of Cassandra Cain's backstory. She spent her whole childhood being trained to kill someone as easily as other humans talk, but when her father actually forced her to go through with it, the experience was so traumatic that she immediately swore never to kill anyone again.
 Later, in her early time as Batgirl, she was extremely technically proficient in combat but inexperienced in the field and had trouble facing metahumans and genuine supervillains. Her general solution to any problem was hitting people, which sometimes led to unfortunate consequences. It took some hard lessons for her to be more flexible and clever on the job.
 Wild Child: She spent around eight years surviving in the wilderness and on the streets, somehow making it from Macau to Gotham, presumably by hitchhiking on ships.
 World's Best Warrior: Shaping up to be one, she already outdoes Bruce in the hand to hand department, and she may end up outdoing her mother, who is THE best martial artist in DC's setting, with only Richard Dragon that can realistically match her.
 You Are Better Than You Think You Are: Gives this speech to several villains, using herself as an example of how people can change. Most notably, this seemed to work on Alpha, though he later returned to the League of Assassins.
