
Current

Batman Family Equipment: Cassanda carries an assortment of Bat-gadgets such as Batarangs, smoke grenades, small explosives, grappling hooks and lines.
Orphan Suit: Cassandra currently wears a modified version of her original outfit, thought the design is largely the same, rather than a hood, the suit comes with a mask completely covering her head. The mask itself has a stitching pattern around her mouth to symbolize her limited speaking abilities.Batman Family Equipment: Cassanda carries an assortment of Bat-gadgets such as Batarangs, smoke grenades, small explosives, grappling hooks and lines.Orphan Suit: Cassandra currently wears a modified version of her original outfit, thought the design is largely the same, rather than a hood, the suit comes with a mask completely covering her head. The mask itself has a stitching pattern around her mouth to symbolize her limited speaking abilities.
Former

Batgirl Suit: Cassie wore a costume originally created by Huntress, taken from her by Batman. As Blackbat, she wears her old Batgirl costume with a domino mask. Her cape is torn, and her hands are wrapped in bandages with claws on the fingertips of her gloves.
Original Outfit: When Cassandra was introduced into the New 52, she wore a hooded black and yellow ninja outfit similar to her father's Orphan suit. She also wore a utility belt for carrying equipment and weapons for her missions. For a brief period, she fashioned a mask for herself resembling the Batman symbol by painting her face with blood of some of her father's victims. This was presumably an act of defiance against her father and a sign of her admiration and respect for Batman.Batgirl Suit: Cassie wore a costume originally created by Huntress, taken from her by Batman. As Blackbat, she wears her old Batgirl costume with a domino mask. Her cape is torn, and her hands are wrapped in bandages with claws on the fingertips of her gloves.Original Outfit: When Cassandra was introduced into the New 52, she wore a hooded black and yellow ninja outfit similar to her father's Orphan suit. She also wore a utility belt for carrying equipment and weapons for her missions. For a brief period, she fashioned a mask for herself resembling the Batman symbol by painting her face with blood of some of her father's victims. This was presumably an act of defiance against her father and a sign of her admiration and respect for Batman.