Kid Flash and the Teen Titans
Wally enjoyed many adventures with Barry and quickly established himself as a good hero, a few years after becoming Kid Flash, Wally met fellow heroes Robin and Aqualad, they joined together to stop the menace of Mr. Twister. It was the first time the sidekicks joined forces. Their second meeting was more eventful: Robin, Kid Flash, Aqualad, now joined by Wonder Girl, fought against their mentors, who had been possessed by the evil Antithesis. At this second meeting, the four youngsters decided to become a team and the Teen Titans were born, with Robin becoming the leader of the team. The sidekicks would continue to operate with their mentors, as well as spending time with their peers in the Titans.Kid Flash eventually left the group to focus on school, while also continuing a part-time solo career and partnership with the Flash on a handful of cases. Wonder Girl eventually persuaded him to rejoin the team. Wally had a crush on Donna and made a halfhearted attempt to date her, even though she was involved with Aqualad at the time. Nothing ever came of this attraction. After a case involving Titans West, this incarnation of the team disbanded and Wally returned to Blue Valley to continue his college career.
The New Teen Titans
Some months later, Raven banded together a group of New Teen Titans to help her battle her demon-father, Trigon. Initially, Wally was disinterested in joining the team. Raven used her emotion-manipulating powers to make Wally fall in love with her ' and in turn, he joined this new group of Teen Titans. Wally was consistently protective of Raven, and came to blows with Robin when he challenged her true motives.After an encounter with the Justice League, Zatanna revealed Raven's manipulation of Kid Flash. He was angry and heartbroken. Even though the Titans eventually came to her aid and ultimately defeated Trigon, Wally had a hard time dealing with Raven's deception. Complicating matters, even without her influence, Wally realized he really was in love with Raven.Shortly after this, Wally's high school sweetheart, Frances Kane, reentered his life. Frances' mother believed she was possessed by a demon; In truth, she had mutant magnetic powers. The Titans were able to deduce this although her mother still rejected her, fearing what her daughter had become. Frances resolved to learn more about controlling these powers. She also revealed to Kid Flash that she knew he was Wally West.Wally grew increasingly unsure of his decision to continue as a member of the Titans. His discomfort with Raven and Frances' encouragement led him to leave the team and return to school in Blue Valley.
The New Flash
The Crisis on Infinite Earths brought him out of retirement, and the death of Barry Allen gave him a new sense of purpose. Despite the risk, he took the name and costume of The Flash, and was determined to live up to the example that Barry Allen had set for the world. That job, however, would not be easy.He was still consigned to relatively low speeds, only 700 miles per hour or so. Also, he won the lottery and gained a fortune, which allowed his more selfish characteristics to thrive, and when he lost it all, his life seemed to be going into a tailspin.
Return of Barry Allen
On Christmas Eve, Wally and Linda enjoyed a get together at Jay Garrick's house, with Jay and his wife Joan. As someone knocks on the door, everybody is shocked to see Barry Allen alive and saying hi.A week later, Jay and Hal Jordan (the Green Lantern) visited Barry. According to him, Barry came back into his human form during Wally's fight with Doctor Alchemy. He could not remember who he is until he visited Flash Museum and stole one of the older Flash costumes he found there and the next thing he did was found Jay and Wally. While Wally is very skeptical about Barry's return, according to Hal's ring, Barry is telling the truth.As Barry saw his old enemy, Pied Piper, Barry attacked him in an extremely aggressive and unusual behavior for Barry. As Wally tells him that Piper is his friend now, Barry is skeptical because of the fact that Wally revealed his secret identity to the public but before the two could end the discussion, Piper informs Wally that there is a gang war going on and it is about to turn the city upside down. As Wally suits up, Barry compliments his new costume while Wally was just asking himself what will Barry's reaction be as he never told him he is the new Flash now.Wally still couldn't believe the man who came back was actually his uncle Barry, that is, until he saw Barry visiting the grave of his wife Iris. Barry thinks about how proud she would be if she saw Wally in action, who in next moment tells him now he believes he is Barry and is sorry that he didn't believe him at first, because Barry's death hurt him pretty badly and he wasn't happy when he saw him, he was afraid.Few weeks later, Wally and Jay stop a gang of high tech equipped commanders. Unfortunately, the train ran out of control and was about to crush civilians. Jay and Wally were unable to stop it but with Barry's help, they were successful. Civilians ask the Flash for autographs but just as Wally was about to give them, Barry is the one who wrote the autographs. Back home, he talks to Linda about taking a different name considering the fact that Barry came back and wants to move out of the city which Linda does not really agree with. As the two laugh over different ideas for Wally's potential new alias, Jay calls, telling them that the commanders they fought on the train took over a warehouse but before he could go there, Wally saw Barry and the two speedsters met Jay and were ready to take the commanders down. During the fight, the commanders shot laser at Wally that tore the ground apart, slamming pieces of rock on to Wally. The commander screams he killed the Flash and at the moment he heard it, Barry asked him what he said and blitzed the commander with rage in his eyes, beating him up. Wally stopped Barry from beating the commander to death. Wally believed Barry acted that way because he thought the commander killed Wally but what Barry actually said that nobody else heard is Barry screaming how he is the Flash. He almost killed the man for calling someone the Flash other than himself.Wally asks himself what is happening to Barry as he never acted the way he does now. He reads a message from Pied Piper about the new location of the commanders. While Wally was reaching his location, Barry met him and they team up yet again. However they were trapped in a force field they can't penetrate or phase throw. Wally finds a way to save Barry and vibrates on the force field to allow him to phase throw and as he asks Barry to help him. Barry refuses, telling him he stole his name and identity, trying to make Barry Allen a forgotten history but he will make everyone remember who Barry Allen was and still is, by destroying Central City. Wally begs Barry to understand he never wanted to replace him, he wanted to honor his memory but Barry does not listen and leaves him to die. Wally only focuses on vibration and phases through the force field. He comes back home and sees Barry on TV having a Press Conference where he said that his protege Wally West, former Kid Flash is not dead. Hearing it, Wally throws his costume in the trash, feeling nothing but grief.Next day, Wally spend some time in the alley where Barry appeared when he was resurrected, trying to find some answers while Jay Garrick (the first Flash), Johnny Quick (a fellow Speedster from World War II) and Max Mercury (Jay's mentor) unsuccessfully tried to stop Barry on his rampage on Central City. As Wally started to lose all hope, he found a book about the Flash from a homeless person nearby which gave him the answer about all this crisis, after he heard the man reading Iris's name on the book. Putting on the suit, he came to the scene with the book in his hand.As the two speedsters try to share their experience about speed to Wally, Johnny mentions the formula he invented which gave him super speed. Max is trying to teach Wally how to get faster by telling him how Wally limited his potential because he is afraid of overshadowing Barry's legacy by becoming his equal. Jay on the other hand tells Wally he deserved the name the Flash and from now on he will call him that way and will no longer use the word junior.After Wally showed them the book he found, he had an idea how to stop Barry and he went to the Flash Museum while Jay, Johnny and Max were searching for Barry who took down all three Speedsters after they stopped the prisoners he freed from their cells. Barry ran back to the Flash Museum, just the place where Wally waited for him to show up. Wally gave him the ring with the suit inside which looked familiar. Wally find out everything. The man who everyone thought was Barry Allen all this time all this, the man puts on a suit and it was revealed that all this time, the man who claimed to be Barry was actually Professor Zoom, the Reverse Flash, Eobard Thawne, Barry's arch enemy from the 25th Century. Somehow he did not full only Wally and his friends but but himself as well which made Hal's ring think he was saying the truth. He was confused because he dropped the book which was revealed to be The Life Story of The Flash, Barry's biography from life to death. It could not have been written in this time because it is from the future, as some events mentioned still did not happen.Two speedsters, one good and one evil start to fight at the remains of the Flash Museum, Thawne explains how he still did not meet Barry Allen as he found out about his future death when he came to the Flash Museum, by mistakenly traveling into the timeline where Barry was dead for years. He wanted to travel to the time when Barry was the Flash in order to meet him because he was his hero, with the issue of Cosmic Treadmill and powers of super speed he gained by repeating the same accident that turned Barry into the Flash while changing his face to make himself look like Barry. When Thawne visited the Flash Museum, he found out his future identity as Reverse Flash plus the fact that his greatest hero will be his murderer. The shock put Thawne in the state of extreme confusion and madness, making him believe that he was Barry Allen.Wally plans on stopping Thawne but he has no chance as he is much faster than Wally. Thawne will not allow himself to be removed from this timeline as he is away from Barry and the events of his death so he tries to destroy the cosmic treadmill. When he tried to kill Wally, Thawne escaped when he was saved by Max, Johnny and the Hal Jordan (Green Lantern). Wally plans to send Thawne back to his timeline where he will eventually become Reverse Flash once again and eventually face Barry Allen for the first time (first time of this timeline's version). As Thawne appears on the TV admitting he was the one who was terrorizing Central City and is about to kill Linda, he was stopped by Wally. When he finally admitted he was afraid of replacing Barry, Wally realizes his speed never left him, it was just limited by his own psychic blocks and now they returned, just like Max said. Wally overpowers Thawne who begs for mercy, but Wally only mocks him, calling him pathetic and a victim of his own obsession. Wally jumps on the cosmic treadmill, telling Thawne how he might travel into the future and terrorize him like he terrorized him, or maybe even kill him as a baby. As Thawne uses the treadmill to travel into the future to stop Wally, it turns out that Wally just ran so fast it looked like he disappeared. He wanted Thawne to travel into the future in order to set the timeline the way it was suppose to be.The Flash Museum was repaired after getting destroyed in Thawne's fight with Hal but now they added the statue of Wally West next to his mentor Barry. Wally finally gets out of his uncle's shadow but he knows he will always be there watching for him. He will keep his legacy alive but he is his own man and not the shadow of his uncle. Wally looks at Barry's biography which turned out to be written by his Aunt Iris, Barry's wife. She is about to write it only few years from now, meaning that she is alive somewhere. He knows it, because she needs to write a book. Wally throws the book into the river because he can't find out what the history has in store for him, because his history belongs only to him.
Bart Allen
Aunt Iris returned from the future, where she had actually gone, instead of actually being dead. She wasn't alone either; with her, she brought along Bart Allen, a young man with amazing speed, who turned out to be her and Barry Allen's grandson. His power was accelerating him to the point that he'd die of old age before reaching his 4th birthday, and she needed Wally's help. He was already in the body of a 12 year-old despite only being alive two years (although he had the mental capacity of a young teen). Wally managed to stabilize his speed, but the two did not mesh very well at all; Wally claiming it was because they were too alike. Therefore, Wally asked Max Mercury to to raise Bart, which he agreed to. Bart took up the speedster gig, but laughed at the idea of going by Kid Flash, instead dubbing himself Impulse.
Zero Hour
When Hal Jordan seemingly went mad after the destruction of his former home, Coast City, and became Parallax, he was replaced as Green Lantern by Kyle Rayner, who took his place in the Justice League of America, just as Wally had taken Barry's place. The relationship between the new Green Lantern and the third Flash got off to a rocky start - Wally, having grown up with Jordan as Green Lantern, and also having fond memories of him to the point that he thought of him as "Uncle Hal", did not warmly embrace Rayner and questioned whether or not he was worthy of replacing Jordan, and was perhaps more critical of Rayner than any other hero was in Rayner's early days. The two eventually overcame their differences and became very close friends, like their predecessors were.During Zero Hour, Wally was seemingly killed while trying to help Rip Hunter and Waverider save the 64th Century and the timestream itself from waves of destructive entropy. Actually, he was flung backwards through time, where he invisibly and intangibly watched on the important points in his life as they happened. Wally became solid at the West Family Reunion, and turned out to be the "uncle" that gave his past self that pep talk. He soon returned to his proper time, but not until he had seen one more vision, a vision of his girlfriend Linda Park's apparent fate at the hands of Kobra, as well as his own death.Afraid for Linda, he tried to take out Kobra as soon as possible, hoping that he could stop the tragedy that he had seen before it happened. He hid all of this information from her as long as he could, and kept holding back his speed, hoping to not brush against the future again. In a fit of rage when Bart ruined his plans against Kobra, Wally raced home, and began to turn into a being of pure energy. It subsided, but it happened again shortly thereafter, and more so.Giving it one last ditch effort, and realizing he would very likely not make it out alive, he asked Jesse Quick to take over the mantle of Flash for him, should he die. This turned out to be nothing but a ploy to make Bart jealous, in hopes that he would get more serious about his legacy.Wally thought he had averted the disaster he had foreseen when he saved Linda from Kobra's laser, but did not expect it to play out again. He had to go at speeds way beyond light to save her, the consequence being that he entered the Speed Force. He traded her fate for what he thought would be his. However, he managed to returned from the Speed Force, despite what Max Mercury had said about it being impossible. Linda was still on Earth, and that kept him from leaving her forever. Upon his return, he quickly defeated Kobra and destroyed his geothermal tap, ruining Project Morpheus. This trip beyond the light gave Wally the power to tap directly into the Speed Force itself; he now mainlined the Speed Force, and this resulted in him manifesting new abilities. He accelerated the speed of Jesse Quick's injury, healing her leg instantly, was able to vibrate through objects like he did as a kid, only now they were atomized afterwards, and was able to lend speed to other objects.
Dark Flash
During a fight with the Black Flash, who had apparently claimed the life of Linda, Wally saved her from the Speed Force. He proposed to her and they were almost married shortly thereafter, but she then disappeared off the face of the Earth, and no one, not even Wally, remembered her.Wally then got caught up in an adventure spanning through different eras. Malcolm Thawne, Barry Allen's twin brother, reappeared, beginning the Allen-Thawne feud. Barry's death during the Crisis on Infinite Earths appeared to have cheated Malcolm out of his dreams of revenge on his brother. Instead, Malcolm focused on Allen's descendants traveling through time in a bid to exterminate them, starting with Wally West. Under the identity of Cobalt Blue, Malcolm ignited a family feud that endured for a millennium.The feud came to a head in the late 30th Century, where Barry Allen was living with his wife Iris. Wally West arrived to try and protect his uncle. Flashes of all eras between the 20th and 30th centuries arrived soon after, all under the control of Thawne's spirit because they all were carrying a shard of the original Cobalt Blue gem. In the end, Wally West ended the menace of Cobalt Blue by running so fast that he skirted the edge of the Speed Force. Its power poured into the gem, and Thawne's spirit (and the gem itself) overloaded from the excess energy. Wally then vanished into the Speed Force. At that same moment, a new, mysterious Flash appeared in Keystone City.Linda's disappearance was caused by a mysterious man who had a deep hatred for the Flash; he abducted her and kept her imprisoned within Limbo. This was also the reason behind why everyone on Earth had forgotten about her--Linda was taken from a time prior to her originally meeting Wally. Linda escaped from his prison and landed in an alternate Keystone City, where she encountered who she thought was Wally, until she noticed three distinct things: Keystone City's police were after Wally and called him "Walter"; Wally seemed to be mentally unbalanced; and this Wally's eyes were blue, not green. Linda next encountered this world's Pied Piper, who told her to run from Wally because he was dangerous.Linda ran toward the Flash Museum, where she found a memorial statue dedicated to her dimensional counterpart, who sacrificed her life to save Keystone City from the villain Kobra. After again encountering Walter at a cemetery, Wally, following his link to Linda, emerged from the Speed Force. A battle ensued between Wally and Walter, where they were evenly matched. However, Walter came back with a vengeance, pinning Wally to a wall with a vibrationally-charged rebar. Wally tried to explain to Walter that he and Linda were from a parallel world; he also explained that although they share the same memories, Wally could never turn into the man Walter has become. That statement set off Walter's anger once again, starting another fight with Wally.Walter then let loose with the fact that after his Linda's death, he sought out Savitar, and after tricking him into teaching Walter every trick and skill he knew, killed him. After Walter's revelation, Abra Kadabra appeared, trapping both Wally and Walter. Kadabra explained that he tried to break the bond that draws Wally back to this dimension by casting a spell to make everyone forget that Linda existed and hold her outside of time, but she escaped, landing in that alternate Keystone and drew Wally to her once again. To defeat Kadabra, Wally temporarily merged his physical essence with Walter's, gaining greater speed and learning a few new skills; from this merging, Walter also finally came to terms with not being able to save his Linda from death.Kadabra, however, faked his defeat at their hands and seemingly discorporated Wally and Linda's essences; in actuality, they ended up traversing through countless alternate dimensions, nearly losing their minds until they found their home dimension, thanks to Bart (he was actually born outside of time, rendering him immune to chronal alterations). Wally and Linda finally made it back to their Keystone City; however, Linda was still forgotten from everyone's minds. Wally then sought out Jay Garrick, told him of his plans to rescue Linda, and set off for the Flash Museum, where he donned a Reverse-Flash costume and "allied" himself with Abra Kadabra and Replicant. Wally then kidnapped Jay Garrick, Bart Allen, and Jesse Quick and took them to Kadabra's abandoned theater hideout, where as Professor Zoom, he taunted Kadabra into reversing the spell he cast on Linda, bringing her back in full, to everyone's memory; Professor Zoom then pulled back his cowl, revealing himself as none other than Wally West. The final battle between Wally, Walter, and Abra Kadabra ensued. Kadabra preparing a spell to wipe the memories of the Flash legacy from the world's minds forever. On Linda's suggestion, Wally, Walter, Jay, Max, and Bart used mirrors to block and reflect Kadabra's spell back at him, rendering Kadabra himself with amnesia. A short while later, Linda gave birth to twins, Jai and Iris.
Infinite Crisis
During the Infinite Crisis, Wally disappeared while trying to force Superboy-Prime into the Speed Force. Before vanishing entirely, he was able to appear to Linda in order to say goodbye. Linda refused to be separated from him, and she and the twins joined him in the Speed Force. Their current whereabouts and condition are unknown.Wally West and family where returned when the Legion of Super-Heroes try to resurrect "the Last Legionnaire" by channeling released Speed Force energy via lightning rods. The legion traveled to spots that were important both to Wally and Bary Allen. Both Hal Jordan and Batman realize this fact and believe Allen's return is imminent. However, they instead retrieve Wally, Linda, and his twin children, who appear to have aged several years. Wally was offered membership to Justice League, which he accepts. It is later said that his return was a freak accident but the Legion of Super-Heroes till got who they wanted. When Wally became aware of Bart's death, he tracked down Inertia stealing his speed and turning him into a living statue. He was placed in the Flash Museum, and forced to stare at Bart's old Kid Flash and Impulse uniforms forever.
Retirement & Return
During what has become known as Infinite Crisis, a team consisting of Kid Flash (Bart Allen), Barry, Max, and Johnny Quick were able to temporarily subdue Superboy-Prime by sending him to the Speed Force and Wally once he had gotten his family followed them (which later turned out to be an alternate Earth). He and the other speedsters, along with Linda and the twins, were sent to an alternate Earth, home of another Jay Garrick operating as the Flash. They decided to absorb the Speed Force into Bart and send him home to battle Superboy-Prime.Content with passing the Flash mantle on to Bart, Wally and Linda decided to raise their children on the alien world Savoth, where the residents were longtime friends of the Flashes. However, shortly after their arrival, the twins began to age very rapidly. The Savothians, who were advanced scholars of velocibiology, at first did not agree to help the Wests, but finally relented and agreed to train Linda to deal with the children's rapid aging.Wally, along with Linda and their children, was brought back to Earth by seven members of the Legion of Super-Heroes using lightning rod devices. When Wally came back, he indirectly took away Bart's portion of the Speed Force, and with the return of Wally West, the Speed Force also returned as he mainlined it and was practically one with it. He was then invited to join the newly reformed Justice League of America. Wally and Linda moved back to Keystone City. Since they were afraid the twins could, at any time, age rapidly, possibly even to old age and death, they decided to let Iris and Jai, who had developed their own superspeed-related abilities, live their lives to the fullest by helping their father fight crime. Not long after, Wally found himself once again pulling a double-shift for two separate teams. He reunited with his old allies the Titans in order to face the pressing threat of Trigon.
Final Crisis
When Orion, was murdered, Wally and Jay investigated to find the Secret Society of Super Villains' hideout and discovered Metron's Chair. They figured out that the bullet that had killed Orion had been sent through time thanks to the chair which acted as a gateway. Suddenly, a light filled the room and from within the portal of the chair came Wally's former mentor and idol, Barry Allen. Barry was chasing the bullet that killed Orion through time but was being pursued by Black Racer. Wally and Jay joined him in the race to save Orion's life but they were too late, Orion was killed. Jay was forced to abandon the chase due to not being able to keep up but Wally and Barry tried to escape the Black Racer, ending up in the near future where the world had been taken over by the Evil Gods thanks to the Anti-Life Equation. They visited Wally's Aunt Iris' house to find even she had been corrupted by Anti-Life. After freeing her from the Equation, Barry and Wally tried to come up with a plan to stop Darkseid, who had now taken over the world. They once again ran, the Black Racer catching up with them, and went into a full sprint for Darkseid. The Black Racer was gaining on them as they approached Darkseid, who was in the middle of battling Superman with his followers. The Flashes saved Superman from the followers' omega beams and when they managed to get to Darkseid, they vibrated through him, causing the Black Racer to crash into him, severely wounding the Evil God. After Darkseid was defeated, Barry and Wally reunited with the rest of their friends and family. Superman assembled Wally along with both generations of the Titans, to reveal that Bart Allen and Superboy had been resurrected in the future and brought back to the present. Wally couldn't be more overjoyed to see his cousin back.
Blackest Night
Wally races across the globe with Barry and Bart to pass to every hero around the world Barry's message of the rise the Black Lantern Corps and their universal invasion. He later arrives at Coast City with Bart, Justice League, and the Teen Titans to aid Barry in taking a stand against Nekron the black personification of death and lord of the Black Lanterns.
DC Rebirth
After the events of Flashpoint, Wally existed along the rest of the DC Universe until at one point, Abra Kadabra erased Wally from the timeline and made everyone forget about him. Wally became stuck om the Speed Force after this, and learned that after Flashpoint, history was altered and the 10 years were stolen from the lives of everyone. Following the fallout of the Darkseid War, Wally managed to escape through the Speed Force and avoid being lost forever. He was able to project himself onto the New 52 Earth, but needed someone to remember him before being revived fully. After several unsuccessful attempts to contact his friends and family (including Linda, Batman, and his cousin, also named Wally, who is now the new Kid Flash), Barry recognized him and returned him to life. After a tearful reunion with his mentor, Wally warned Barry of the universal change and dangers to come. Although the two decide to keep Wally's return secret from Iris based on Wally's own experience with Linda, Barry encourages him to return to the Teen Titans, but also recommends that he don a new costume to reflect that he is the Flash rather than 'Kid Flash'. Wally goes to the Titans, and through both physical contact and the Speed Force, reminds them of their memories with him. After an emotional reunion, he tells them of the situation. Wally believes that the unknown entity will attack again to prevent them from finding out the truth, which they will do "together" as the Titans.Directly after the events in Titans: Rebirth, Lilith has Wally repeat the story of his return in order for her to use it as a means of making the mental connections between him, herself and the Titans stronger. While doing this, she notices the most powerful thought in Wally's mind is that of Linda Park, which sparks various, but supportive, reactions from the other Titans. Nightwing encourages Wally to seek Linda out and try and make new memories with her. Elsewhere, Linda is still puzzled by Wally's sudden presence in her life and decides to investigate him further.
Perfect Storm
After Keystone City is frozen in time and a lightning storm appears over Central City, Wally runs towards it hoping to get answers. He got there in the nick of time to catch a powerless Barry falling from a great height thanks to Grodd. With his powers gone, Barry names Wally The Flash of Central City.Grodd was sick, and he believed the Speed Force was the cure. Working with The Black Hole, they were stealing speed from the whole city. Luckily, Avery and Wallace had stolen the key to the device. Barry thinks he can use it to get his powers back, but he needs Wally to buy him some time. So, Wally attempts to evacuate the city.After Barry used the wand to get his powers back and cure Grodd, Grodd also used the wand to harness the Negative Speed Force and cause a lightning storm. Barry was content to run into the eye of the storm and negate the effects with his own Positive Speed Force, but Wally wouldn't let him. Wally led all of Barry's speedster allies into the storm, allowing all of them to surviveIn the wake of the storm, not only did Barry admit to Iris that he was the Flash, but Wally re-introduced himself since his rebirth. Iris immediately recognized him, but their reunion also caused a painful flood of memories to return to Wally.
Flash War
Wally's memories were still causing painful migraines. One such migraine came at the same time The Renegades appeared from the future. The Renegades had come to arrest Iris West for the murder of Eobard Thawne. Wally immediately ran away with Iris, causing a fight between the speedsters and The Renegades until Commander Cold recognized Wally's ailment, Temporal Seizures.According to Cold, they are caused by time travel or changes in time. Cold makes a deal with Iris: if she came quietly to answer some questions, they could take Wally with them to cure him.When the group traveled to the 25th century, Wally was teleported to a different location thanks to Hunter Zolomon. Hunter had a way for Wally get his children back. Hunter told Wally that all the forgotten speedsters are in the Speed Force, and the only way to free them was to destroy it. Barry didn't trust Hunter and was forced to chase Wally into the timestream back to the present.The energy output from Wally trying to outrun Barry caused the Force Barrier to break instead of the Speed Force itself. This gave Hunter access to the Speed Force and other related forces, his plan all along. Wally and Barry chase Hunter into Hypertime, where Wally's temporal seizures cause Hunter pain.When Wally released all his temporal energy, it forced Barry and Wally out of Hypertime. Cold, along with Iris and Wallace, show up from a future that was destroyed. Cold's future tech found no temporal energy among the Speed Force energy, cutting the speedsters off from time travel and deserting Cold in the present.With this new revelation, Wally lost faith in finding his children.
Heroes in Crisis
Following the events of Flash War, Wally sought help at Sanctuary, a rehabilitation facility for superheroes. Wally's mental illness suffered after being cut off from the lost speedsters, especially his kids. Over time, Wally started to believe he was the only patient at Sanctuary, and the whole facility was made to pity him. To prove himself wrong, he broke into the command center and looked through other superhumans files.Experiencing their combined trauma caused Wally to have a breakdown and lose control of his powers. The resulting surge of Speed Force energy killed most of the patients, including Wally's close friend, Arsenal.Panicked, Wally left evidence framing both Booster Gold and Harley Quinn, both surviving patients at Sanctuary, including a dead body of himself he produced using time travel. Five days later, Booster and friends found Wally, convinced him to turn himself in, and helped close the time travel loop he created.
Flash Forward
While imprisoned for the crimes he committed at Sanctuary, Wally was given a second chance by Tempus Fuginaut. Tempus needed Wally's help protecting the Multiverse from dark matter that escaped the Dark Multiverse. Wally reluctantly agreed and purged the dark matter from multiple Earths, each of which helped Wally cope with the guilt of his recent actions.However, when Tempus sent Wally to a Dark Multiverse Earth to destroy it, Wally found his children alive. While Wally attempted to purge the dark matter without destroying the planet, he came across the Mobius Chair. Believing Tempus was keeping secrets, Wally reached for the chair, which sorted the broken memories that had been causing him pain. With his mind clear, Tempus revealed to him that the Dark Multiverse planet was the creation of Wally's greatest fears, which is why Tempus chose him in the first place for this quest. Wally was the reason for the invading dark matter.According to Tempus, if Wally sat in the Mobius Chair, it would fill his head with so much information, there would be no room for emotions. And thus, the dark-matter-leaking planet would cease to exist. Wally agreed to sit, as long as Tempus saved Jai and Irey after the planet was destroyed. Tempus agreed. With the power of the chair, Wally saw Jai and Irey returned to Linda and with them, all the memories of her life with Wally.On the Mobius Chair, Wally witnesses much of the multiverse. When he sees the Justice Society and the Legion of Super-Heroes return to the main timeline, he looks deeper and sees that time itself is broken. With Tempus' help, Wally would use his new abilities to solidify the strands of broken multiverse into one coherent timeline, but his efforts are interrupted by the Batman Who Laughs.
Death Metal
Wally is forced off the Mobius Chair by the Batman Who Laughs, who had his power amped by Perpetua to remake the world to her liking. He imprisoned Wally on Themyscira, where Wonder Woman was forced to be the warden. With Swamp Thing, Wonder Woman broke Wally out and brought him to the hero cemetery, where Batman was planning to raise an army with a Black Lantern Ring.Wonder Woman wanted to stop Batman because she had a new idea. They would create an "Anti-Crisis" to counter Perpetua's Crisis energy using Wally's new cosmic role, granted to him by the Tempus Fuginaut. While Wonder Woman and Batman prepare, Wally was left in a bunker with Barry, Jay, and the Justice Society.They were tracked down by the Batman Who Laughs, who combined himself with Dr. Manhattan becoming the "Darkest Knight." The Darkest Knight wanted to siphon off Wally's remaining Anti-Crisis energy to become more powerful than Perpetua, so the speedsters (now joined by Wallace) were forced to flee the bunker.Unfortunately, as they ran, they were using up the Speed Force, which was almost depleted. Wally believed he needed to turn around and reconnect to the Mobius Chair. Barry reluctantly agreed and ultimately gave his speed to Wally to give him the boost he needed to outrun the Darkest Knight. He beat him to the Mobius Chair and traveled the Speed Force to reunite with Wonder Woman and carry out her plan to remake the multiverse.Unfortunately, the Darkest Knight rigged the chair, and the Anti-Crisis energy was absorbed by him instead of Wally. The Darkest Knight took on Perpetua, while the heroes regrouped on Themyscira and fought the Darkest Knight's army. After the Darkest Knight defeated Perpetua, Wonder Woman sacrificed herself to defeat him.In the wake of the new universe, Wally met the Totality and was informed of the new structure of the multiverse.
The Flash, Again
Wally was chosen by Barry to be the new Flash, while Barry was with Justice Incarnate mapping the new multiverse. Wally not only wanted to turn him down but also sever his connection to the speed force so he can live a quiet life with the family he just got back.Before he could sever ties, the Speed Force snatched Wally from existence and bounced him around time. He kept leaping into the bodies of speedsters including Impulse and Max Mercury, among others, until finally ending up in the body of his son as an adult. As Jai, Wally was able to communicate with Irey, who knew about the time travel from the stories Wally would eventually tell her and informed him his next jump would be his last and his hardest.Wally appeared as himself during the events of Heroes in Crisis but in a time bubble. There, he was confronted by Savitar, who had been manipulating the Speed Force this whole time trying to take control of it. With the help of Mr. Terrific, Barry was able to connect to Wally to drag him back. However, doing so would bring Savitar with him and cause the events of Heroes in Crisis. With Arsenal's blessing, they pierced the time bubble, causing the Speed Force surging and sending Savitar and Wally to the present.With a clean conscience, Wally is able to embrace the mantle of Flash and cut off Savitar's connection to the Speed Force.
Justice League Darkness
When a black glaive of unknown origin shows up in his city, Wally West starts to notice his allies are acting unusually frustrated and confrontational. Eventually, the whole city starts fighting. Meanwhile, villains from all over try to get their hands on the glaive, with Starbreaker ultimately successful thus becoming possessed by Eclipso. Baffled by Wally's immunity to his infectious anger, Eclipso retreats and Dr. Fate intervenes to whisk Wally to Gemworld.In Gemworld, Wally and Fate meet up with Amethyst and the Justice League Dark, who are already fighting off the effects of Eclipso. Wally determines Eclipso is trying to get to the heart of Gemworld so he could turn it into a giant Heart of Darkness and further his reach. Unfortunately, the JLD fell into Eclipso's trance and captured Wally.Just then, his kids, sensing he was in trouble appeared with their new friend, Maxine Baker, daughter of Animal Man. The three were able to free their father. With Dark Opal's help they fought Eclipso's possessed mob long enough to give Wally an opening to stab Eclipso with the glaive. With Eclipso (and by extension Starbreaker) absorbed into the weapon, the Spectre appears to take possession of it.Wally and the kids are then successfully teleported home. Back home Linda West is found with new speed force force powers as well, much to everyone's surprise, now meaning all four West's are able to tap into the speed force.
Dark Crisis
When the Justice League is killed by the Dark Army, they leave behind a void in the power structure. Believing they need Barry Allen, Wally gets the Flash family together with Mister Terrific, who had figured a way to track beings through the Speed Force. With three hits on possible Barry Allens, the family splits into three groups and head into the multiverse. Wally ends up on Silver-Age-like world with Wallace (who Wally was now calling Ace), where they find the true Barry Allen in a dream-like state. After snapping him out of it, the trio (now with Linda) escape into the Speed Force. However, Barry refuses to go home. Instead, he decides to go in search of his Justice League teammates knowing that their world was in good hands with Wally as the Flash.Back on Earth, Wally and his speedster family members show up to a strategy session among the JSA, the Bat-Family, and the Titans. They are making plans to cover the globe from attacks from Deathstroke and his Secret Society. Wally and the speedsters would run point to get to the reported incidents as soon as possible until the various teams can show up as back-up.
One Minute War
A raiding party representing The Fraction, an alien culture that has seized the power of the Speed Force through technology, lands on Earth to steal resources in the blink of an eye. To Wally and his fellow speedsters, time seems to freeze as The Fraction attempts to attack Earth. For the speedsters of Earth are what The Fraction calls organic conduits. They have faced them on other worlds and have so far proved victorious. Coincidentally, they dropped their spire headquarters between Keystone and Central City, the force of which killed a number of people, including Iris West.Wally rounds up the speedsters and brings them to Mr. Terrific's Keystone lab. The plan is for most of them to collect frozen survivors to keep secure there, while Wally and Barry find an escape vehicle. However, Impulse and Kid Flash recklessly went out on their own, scoring a Fraction tank, which happened to be full of metahumans, including Superman and an organic conduit from another world, who had answers about the Fraction. Upon learning they use technology to siphon and distribute the Speed Force, they plan on taking down the relay device.Rigging his car with a Fraction engine, Wally intends to drive into the spire and destroy the relay, however, he needs Jay and Max to figure out a way to get the frictionless barrier down. The other speedsters trick them into releasing more troops to take them on, while Jesse and Linda hold open one of the gates. Wally makes it inside and is too fast for their conventional weaponry, however, Admiral Vel Anthro orders the emitter to be used, overpowering Wally and seemingly turning him to ash. He was actually teleported to a new place called Planet Flash, where Gold Beetle and the victims of Flash's panic attack at Sanctuary were residing.Gold Beetle explained after her run in with Wally during his adventure through time body-hopping speedsters, she followed through on his requests. She saved all the heroes who died in Sanctuary and brought them to Planet Flash waiting for Wally. A future version of Wally gave her a head's up that he would need their help to take out the Fraction. She had new prototypes of their vests that would give them a small window before they were frozen in time by the Fraction's control of the Speed Force to give Wally an opening. He witnesses the leader of the Fraction scoff at Wally's family's plan to build up enough Speed Force energy to send The Fraction back through time. He knows it won't work without a connection to the spire, so Wally turns him into one. Victorious, Wally reunites with his family.
Wade West
Linda gave birth to her and Wally's third child: Wade. To give her some space to recuperate, Wally attended a new Terrifictech prototype test of a temporal device. As they turn it on, Wade is kidnapped from the hospital by Granny Goodness that seeks to use his innate connection to the Speed Force. At the same time, the temporal device brings forth the android Hourman, Matthew Tyler, who was previously lost in time. He had fallen into a timepoint and could hear into the Palace of Eternity, where Granny was discussing her plans. Using the waypoint set by the temporal device, he was able to explain to Wally that they may be able to save his so, but they needed help. They assembled a team consisting of The Terrifics, Ace, and Gold Beetle (from an early point in her timeline from before she met Wally).Upon arriving at the Palace of Eternity, they found giant monsters fighting each other just outside, as well as Omega-Bam-Man, an alien wrestler Wally had previously befriended. While many of his allies stayed outside to keep the monsters busy, Wally, Ace, Mr. T, and Hourman ran into the palace to save Wade. They were met by The Furious, a gorup of metahuman orphans kidnapped and trained by Granny. Thankfully, Wally was able to grab Wade before Granny could retreat. They even saved The Furious, whose parents happened to be Wally's allies. Unfortunately, their time travel device, the worlogog, was damaged causing the group to be lost in time during their escape.