Wally's first appearance outside of comics was on The Superman/Aquaman Hour of Adventure. Wally, as Kid Flash, appears in two segments starring the Flash (Barry Allen); they are titled "Take A Giant Step" and "To Catch A Blue Bolt"; the latter shows Barry and Wally changing into their Flash and Kid Flash uniforms using their rings. It should be noted that Wally's appearance differs from his comic book counterpart. He has black hair, and the red and yellow color scheme of his second costume is reversed, as well as simplified to put him in trunks. He was voiced by Tommy Cook.
DCAU (DC Animated Universe)
The Flash appeared in Superman: The Animated Series, voiced by Charlie Schlatter, in the second-season episode "Speed Demons". As in the traditional comic book storylines, the Flash and Superman race to find out who is faster, but the Weather Wizard gets in the way, which causes the two to work together.In the Justice League animated series Wally is voiced by Michael Rosenbaum (Smallville's Lex Luthor). The importance of the Flash as the "heart" of the Justice League was shown in the episode "A Better World", when his death in an alternate timeline triggered a series of events which turned that alternate League (the "Justice Lords") into virtual dictators of Earth. He has also proven key in saving the day in a few episodes, such as Divided We Fall, in which he tapped into a new level of power to defeat the fused Brainiac/ Lex Luthor when all the other six founding Justice League members could not. In the process, he was drawn into the Speed Force, and barely managed to escape. The episode "Flash and Substance" is centered on the opening of the Flash Museum on "Flash Appreciation Day" in Central City, and featured many of the Flash's rogues in cameos, while focusing on Captain Boomerang, Mirror Master, Captain Cold, and The Trickster (voiced by Mark Hamill). Linda Park also appears as a reporter covering the museum opening. Mirror Master alludes that Wally West may not have been the only Flash stating to the rest of the Rogues, "We've all been stopped by a Flash. Additionally, the episode "The Great Brain Robbery", saw The Flash and Lex Luthor inadvertently changing consciousness-Wally West (inside Lex Luthor's body) is tasked with trying to figure out what has occurred, escape, and not be killed by the suspicious members of the Legion of Doom.Wally West is the Flash featured as one of the seven founding members of the Justice League, in both the Justice League and Justice League Unlimited animated series. His personality is more or less the same as it was from his appearance on Superman: The Animated Series, and his flippant attitude is often used to provide comic relief from the often intense nature of his fellow Leaguers, though he is the featured hero in several episodes. However, in one episode of Justice League Unlimited, he complains to Elongated Man that he dislikes being viewed as the "teenage sidekick" even though he was part of the original seven. His super fast metabolism, which results in him eating absurdly and inhumanly large portions of food, was something of a running gag on the series.Wally elements of the JL/JLU animated Flash, he has red hair and green eyes like Wally does in the comics. This Flash also has Wally's girl-crazed, occasionally big-headed manner, paired with a childlike attitude and intelligence. When he tries to vibrate his molecules through solid objects, he causes them to explode as opposed to passing through the object intangible like Barry Allen would. Linda Park, Wally's girlfriend and eventual wife in the comics, appears in an episode and is a suggested love interest for the Flash. He also has a good relationship with Hawkgirl. Wally shows a strong friendship with Shayera that is touched on several times through both the JL and JLU series, usually in a sisterly way, including him being the first to hug her after her decision to resign. In the Justice League Unlimited third season's debut episode "I Am Legion", Flash says, "She loves me. She's like the big sister I never had. Only, you know short."Wally appears without the Flash costume twice in the series. The first time is in the Starcrossed episodes when the Justice League decides to remove their costumes and move around as ordinary people to hide and regroup. The Flash appears reluctant to trust his fellow Justice League members with his secret identity, whereupon Batman shows he already knows by exclaiming, "Wally West!" while pointing at the Flash, followed up by revealing the secret identity of Superman (Clark Kent) and himself (Bruce Wayne). Wally then removes his mask and Wonder Woman tells him that she likes his red hair just before ruffling it. The second time is in the episode "Flash and Substance", where Wally is shown to be working at the forensics lab before taking a half day off to attend the Flash museum opening. Wally's face is also exposed in one other episode, "The Great Brain Robbery". When his mind is switched with Lex Luthor's, Lex removes the mask to see if he can at least "figure out" who the Flash really is by looking at his face in the bathroom mirror, only to state in an annoyed tone, "I have no idea who this is.'
Teen Titans
Wally makes His debut as Kid Flash in the episode of the Teen entitled "Lightspeed". While the character's true identity is never given, the fact that Michael Rosenbaum voices the character implies that he is intended to be Wally West as Rosenbaum also voices an older Flash/Wally West in Justice League, as well as insisting he vibrated through the bars of a cage the H.I.V.E Five trapped him in, an ability only Wally has demonstrated. In the series, he is portrayed similar to the way that Wally was portrayed in comic books. His personality is often considered "laid back", and he is known to be comedic and sometimes flirtatious. When Jinx asks Kid Flash who he is working for, he says, "I work alone these days", implying a previous partnership with The Flash.When the Titans are searching for the Brotherhood of Evil and the Titans East have gone back home to Steel City, Kid Flash decides to help protect Jump City and stop crimes from being committed. When he interferes with the H.I.V.E. Five's criminal deeds, he flirts with their leader, Jinx, and tries to make her reevaluate her life of crime. Shortly afterward the H.I.V.E Five attempts to capture him and, after Madame Rouge tires him out, Jinx traps him in an electric field. Jinx nearly hands him over to Madame Rouge, but she frees him when she realizes Madame Rouge doesn't appreciate her help and that Kid Flash was the one who truly cared for her well-being. Afterward, Jinx quits the H.I.V.E. Five and joins forces with him as a Titan, and the two quickly form a romantic relationship.He briefly appears in a shot of all the Titans in "Calling All Titans", where it is revealed the Titans have come in contact with him and he has a Titan communicator. In "Titans Together", he brings Jinx to the Brotherhood's lair as his ally and helps the speedsters M's y Menos and the other Titans freeze the Brotherhood's member villains inside cryogenic cases. M's y Menos are very impressed by Kid Flash's speed and abilities.Kid Flash is one of the few Titans in the animated series to fully resemble his comic counterpart. However, Wally's eyes in the comics are currently green. The design of Kid Flash with blue eyes remains consistent with his original appearances, pre-Crisis.
Young Justice
Wally West appears as Kid Flash in the series, voiced by Jason Spisak.He is initially introduced acting as the partner to The Flash, when at the age of 15, he was invited to join the Justice League. He joined Aqualad, Robin, and Speedy on July 4 in entering the Hall of Justice after having defeated Captain Cold with Flash. While the League was dealing with other matters, Aqualad, Kid Flash, and Robin investigated a fire at Cadmus Labs. Together they rescued a clone of Superman, known as the Super Boy, and with his assistance, defeated a mutated Mark Desmond. In an act of defiance, the four teens banded together to form a team, and on July 8 they were brought to the Secret Sanctuary, where they met their fifth member, Miss Martian.When the team was confronted by Mister Twister, Miss Martian posed as Red Tornado using Kid Flash to generate twisters. When she crushed the android within the battle suit, Kid Flash took the inner android's eye as a souvenir, the beginning of a tradition. During the team's first official mission, Kid Flash questioned Robin's abilities as a leader. After some hesitation, he agreed with the team and accepted Aqualad as his leader.Later, Wally was introduced to the sixth member of the team, Artemis. The two, however, did not get along, not even on missions. The rift between them was so that in the episode "Infiltrator", when Miss Martian and Artemis were caught off guard by while protecting Dr. Roquette from the League of Shadows, Wally placed all blame on Artemis even though both women were equally at fault.Friction between Artemis and Kid Flash increased during the team's next mission when they went to rescue Kent Nelson from Abra Kadabra and Klarion the Witch Boy. Frustrated with the way Kid Flash became careless in his pursuit of Miss Martian, she outed him as a non-believer of magic. Later, in a moment of friendship, she asked him how he was handling the team's latest adventure, and immediately became frustrated again when Wally explained away the magic he had just witnessed. Unbeknownst to her, Nelson suggested that Wally pursue Artemis; advice he promptly disregarded.Batman contacted the Team with a new mission: tracking Clayface in the Gotham City sewers. Kid Flash proposed waiting for Artemis to arrive, but Batman required their help right away.In the sewers, the Team did not find Clayface'he found them. The monster attacked, and pressed Kid Flash against the side of the pipe. Clayface got away.The Team regrouped in the Bio-Ship. Kid Flash changed into a new costume. They discussed strategy, and Robin suggested splitting up. Aqualad, lost in thought, agreed.Clayface hunted down the entire Team, one by one. He impersonated Miss Martian to catch Kid Flash off guard.The Team was defeated, only Aqualad was still standing, but barely. Batman intervened and soundly defeated Clayface.Back at the cave, Batman ordered the team to head home, except Aqualad.The Allens, the Wests and the Garricks celebrated Jay Garrick's birthday at the West family home.
September 2010
Batman sent the Team on a recon mission into energy surges in the Bialyan desert, but the mission went horribly wrong after Psimon found them. He blocked the memories of everyone in the Team for the last six months. Stumbling off into the desert, Kid Flash awoke to find Artemis unconscious, so he pulled her into a shack to get her out of the heatWaking up Artemis, their conversation was cut short when the two were forced out of the hut they were in after hearing a bomb being dropped. Together, the two had to continuously flee from the pursuing Bialyan troops.Kid Flash and Artemis eventually met up with Miss Martian and Robin. In order to find out what caused their memory loss, Miss Martian dug into the collective memory of the group. They discovered their leader was missing. They soon found Aqualad, severely dehydrated in the desert. Kid Flash, Artemis, and Robin were forced to take care of him themselves while heading for the bio-ship after Miss Martian left them to rescue Superboy, despite their objections.Kid Flash, Robin, and Artemis all made it to the bio-ship with Aqualad. There, they treated him until Miss martian returned with Superboy and the newly acquired Sphere.After the ordeal in Bialya, Artemis, Kid Flash and Robin took the Zeta-tube home.Kid Flash appeared in time to interrupted the private session of Superboy and Miss Martian to help them fix their motorcycle. Aqualad later appeared to ask them how they were handling their duties to the team whilst juggling school time. Unbeknownst to Kid Flash and the others, while they were talking, Red Torpedo and Red Inferno infiltrated the cave and overwhelmed the unknowing teammates with a large body of water and fire, and imprisoned them.Kid Flash and the others were eventually freed when Robin and Artemis created an EMP to knock out Inferno and Torpedo, negating their powers. When Red Tornado returned to investigate, he feigned reprogramming and sucked the air out of the room, knocking Kid Flash and the others unconscious. Kid Flash awoke later when the League came to check on them.A day after the cave was attacked, Kid Flash was livid and demanded answers. Upon learning from Superboy'who listened on the conversation between Aqualad and Batman'that Aqualad withheld knowledge of a mole, he and the other teammates instantly grew angry and antagonistic to Aqualad for keeping secrets from the team. Before the situation got out of hand, Batman assigned the team a mission.As they landed in Northern India, the team continued with the animosity to Aqualad. Kid Flash and Robin headed off by themselves without listening to Aqualad's plans. While investigating, the duo was attacked by large vultures, which were surmised were under the influence of Kobra Venom. After dealing with the vultures, they were contacted telepathically by Aqualad. This did not sit well with them, for they again displayed antagonism towards him. It was not until Aqualad established his role as the leader while promising to put it up for discussion after the mission was over did they quiet down and listen to him.Kid Flash and the others regrouped at the hideout where Captain Marvel was held captive. After shutting down the invisible field around the dome and dealing with the opposition that followed, Kid Flash and the others made it inside. There, they met the Brain. After a period of fighting, they eventually forced The Brain to retreat with Monsieur Mallah. Kid Flash kept Monsieur Mallah's beret as a souvenir.Before heading off, Robin questioned Aqualad for withholding knowledge of a mole. He responded that the source of the mole was Sportsmaster, who could not be fully trusted. After giving his reason, the team voted to keep Aqualad as their leader.
October 2010
In light of the plant attacks on Metropolis, Gotham City, Star City, Paris and Taipei by the Injustice League, Batman assigned the Team a mission to destroy the central control system.Moments after reaching the Injustice League's hideout, the Team's bio-ship was attacked by Count Vertigo and Black Adam, forcing them to leave it behind. Robin and Miss Martian headed off to destroy the central control system. Kid Flash and the others were left to deal with the Injustice League members, but were easily overwhelmed and knocked unconscious; they were then carried off to the headquarters by Wotan.They were eventually freed after Wotan was struck by the newly recovered bio-ship. As they landed on the ground, they were forced to face the Injustice League. While they put up a good fight, the team was soon overwhelmed after Wotan recovered from being hit by the bio-ship and attacked the team. This forced Aqualad to put on the Helmet of Fate, much to the disapproval of Kid Flash who, during that moment, was struck by Black Adam, sending him flying to a tree and breaking an arm. Even with Dr. Fate on their side, the team was still being beaten. The Justice League arrived just in time to quell the battle, forcing the Injustice League to surrender.Much to Kid Flash's surprise, Aqualad removed the helmet, giving thanks to Nelson for persuading Nabu. With everything over, Batman congratulated the team for a satisfactory performance.After being introduced to Zatanna, the team took it upon themselves to search for Red Tornado after being fed up with being left out on the search, despite being ordered otherwise. The Team took Zatanna along with them under the auspices of giving her a tour of Happy Harbor. While on the bio-ship, the team turned to Kid Flash to formulate an idea of where to head to first.Kid Flash's idea led the Team to visit Professor Ivo in Belle Reve, under the pardon of Hugo Strange. Upon questioning him, Ivo tacitly admitted he had knowledge of T.O. Morrow's whereabouts. Zatanna used her magic to force him to blurt out his exact location.After reaching Teton County, the Team was immediately confronted by Red Tornado, who blew words into the ground telling them to play dead. This prompted the arrival of Red Volcano, who was cognizant of the charade. Red Tornado left, leaving the Team to face Red Volcano. With his superior processing speed and memories of Red Tornado, Red Volcano easily handled the Team. Red Inferno, Red Torpedo, and Red Tornado soon arrived at the scene and helped defeat Red Volcano at the cost of their "lives", though Red Tornado was saved.Kid Flash then informed Red Tornado on what to do to counteract the effects of the erupted super volcano. With that over, they repaired him back at Morrow's lab.The Team took part in a psychic training exercise meant to simulate an alien attack on Earth, which was designed to grow worse the more the team accomplished. However, Miss Martian's telepathic powers caused things to spiral out of control after Artemis "died", which led everyone into believing everything was real. Kid Flash was livid over the death of Artemis and made it a goal to get revenge on the aliens. He later "died" alongside Robin during their final stand in an alien mother-ship, placing him in a coma. Martian Manhunter ended the simulation by "killing" Miss Martian, allowing everyone to awake. The team awoke immediately after Miss Martian was killed in the simulation. Everyone was visibly distraught over what occurred.Wally had a therapy session with Black Canary. Wally admitted being unaffected by how the simulation turned out, though he lost his cool upon being reminded how he reacted after the death of Artemis. Upon attempting to change the subject to Black Canary herself, she instead told him he was in denial, to which he did not deny.Wally was invited to a Halloween party by Megan and Conner. He decided to dress up as a werewolf. At the dance, Conner noticed that Marvin was playing a prank on the others by creating the impression of a Martian invasion. With the help of Wally and Megan, they made it look like the town was being invaded by Martians to get Marvin to confess to the prank.
November 2010
Wally eagerly awaited M'gann's shopping trip, and was glad she picked him snicker doodles. While they unloaded, all of a sudden, the adults disappeared.The Team set up base of operations in the Cave, and a shelter in the high school. They discovered all adults in the world were missing, so it was up to them to keep the order.Kid Flash, Robin and Aqualad hosted a worldwide broadcast, in which they called on older children to take care of the younger, and act responsibly, while they looked for a solution.Since the source of the disappearance was magic, Aqualad and Kid flash briefly discussed using the Helmet of Fate, but decided not to. Zatanna found the epicenter of the magic: Roanoke Island. Billy Batson arrived in the Cave out of nowhere, and they discovered there were two dimensions, one for adults, and one for children. Through him, they were able to get messages across to Batman to form a coordinated attack.The Team attacked the culprit, Klarion, on a pentagram. Kid Flash remembered how he, with Doctor Fate, had defeated him last time, but Klarion anticipated an attack on Teekl. He deflected all their attacks; Zatanna had to don the Helmet of Fate to get his forcefield down. Kid Flash rushed towards the gem in the center of the pentagram and grabbed it. Doctor Fate, and Zatara in the adult world, merged the gem and the dimensions back together.Klarion escaped, and Zatara had to give up his own body to make Fate release his daughter. Since the Helmet was gone from his souvenir shelf, Wally replaced it with a sippy cup he got from a small child.Wally woke up on his birthday, elated as could be. He finally got his cast off, and during breakfast, he also learned his high school declared a snow day.He had dropped hints about his oncoming birthday for weeks, in the hopes of getting a surprise party. They gave him one, because as always, he hadn't been very subtle about it, and they didn't want to disappoint him. Wally had one birthday wish, a kiss from M'gann. He pestered her for one, and she eventually gave him one, on the forehead. His embarrassing behavior led Artemis to walk up behind him and inform him M'gann was off the market. Wally's party mood was ruined.The party was cut short by Batman, who had a mission for the Team. With the League short on members, the Team had to help them destroy five ice fortresses that were blanketing North America with snow. Kid Flash was excited, thinking this would be the perfect birthday gift. When Batman finished dividing up the teams, he was shocked to hear his name was not mentioned. That was because Batman had a different mission for him: the snow had grounded all air traffic, and a girl in Seattle needed a donor heart from Boston. He had to deliver it. He was annoyed at being left out, and only begrudgingly accepted.The local police had cleared a path to Boston General Hospital, but weren't fast enough on the freeways. Kid Flash had to jump over the gridlocked traffic. At the hospital, he attempted some small talk and flirting with Mattie Harcourt, but the resident just gave him the backpack, instructions and a timetable, and ordered him to get going. He had four hours to get to Seattle. He had reached the outskirts of Chicago within eighty minutes, but again found the traffic gridlocked. He made a detour, and the street full of fast food restaurants he picked made him hungry. He did not stop for a snack. As he progressed into South Dakota, he witnessed Vandal Savage attacking state troopers. He went back and attacked him, and after fifteen minutes, decided he had bigger things to worry about. He continued towards Seattle. With one hour and eighteen minutes remaining, he raced through the Mountain States. Unfortunately, he had run out of food, and had to run the last part on an empty stomach. He got to the hospital, and handed the heart to the nearest doctor. The doctor told him the girl was dead, it was too late. Devastated, Kid Flash sat down in the lobby. He was approached by another doctor, Pieter Cross, who told him the girl was alive, and actually Queen Perdita of Vlatava. Kid Flash realized the first doctor had conned him, and was just in time to spot him heading for the garage. In the parking lot, he fought the henchmen, as well as their leader, Count Vertigo. Though he was pinned down for a moment, he managed to retrieve the heart and bring it back upstairs. He collapsed in the lobby.When he came to, Perdita had been successfully operated, and was recovering. In order to fool Vertigo, they hatched a plot that involved declaring her dead. They hoped he would gloat his way into a confession.Count Vertigo fell for it: when Kid Flash "woke" in the hospital bed, the count informed him that he was now king, and since Perdita died on the operating table, he needn't have worried on his coup. Kid Flash revealed Perdita was listening (and recording) behind a curtain; Vertigo was arrested and stripped of his diplomatic immunity.Perdita offered Kid Flash Vertigo's sword, a family heirloom, as a souvenir.Wally decided not to go for the sword, but added the backpack he had carried to his collection instead. Dick congratulated him on saving an entire country, and Wally was glad he could help.Batman briefed the Team on their newest mission: Rumaan Harjavti, the democratically-elected president of Qurac, had uncharacteristically allied himself with Queen Bee, the dictator of neighboring Bialya. In two days, Qurac would be absorbed by Bialya, leaving Queen Bee as the sole monarch of the unified country. Queen Bee had the ability to control men, but she has not left Bialya. The Team was tasked to investigate the situation. Since Aqualad was busy helping Aquaman, Batman appointed Robin as mission leader. Kid Flash wanted to congratulate his friend on the honor, but he did not feel like it.The Team arrived at the Quraci-Bialyan border, which was abuzz with activity. Bialyan tanks had begun to cross the border, and had caused the animals on a border wildlife sanctuary to stampede. Robin acquiesced to Miss Martian's plea to help two civilians in harm's way, but insisted on maintaining stealth to prevent an international incident.The Team forcibly diverted the Bialyan military around the sanctuary, and rescued the civilians from the stampede. The boy, Garfield Logan, was ecstatic at being rescued by the heroes he idolized. His mother Marie, was far less excited. She worried that their rescue would trigger a retaliatory response from the Bialyans. Miss Martian stayed behind to assist Marie in rebuilding the fences, while the rest of the Team took Garfield and an injured oryx to the clinic.The Team was unwinding at the main compound when it came under attack from Bialyan drones. The planes were destroyed by Miss Martian, but Garfield was caught in an explosion. In shock, he needed a transfusion of the rare O-negative blood type, which none of the Team have. Kid Flash offered to run him to a hospital, but it was too far away. Miss Martian volunteered to molecularly shape-shift her blood cells to save his life.While the transfusion was ongoing, the downcast Team left Garfield's room to avoid distraction to the operation. Hoping to catch the news, Kid Flash accidentally played a videotape showing the opening sequence of Hello, Megan!, discovering precisely where Miss Martian had taken her human name, form, and mannerisms from, and why "Conner" was her favorite name.When Miss Martian joined them, Kid Flash quickly changed channels'the news showed the president at a conference. Superboy noticed Psimon directly behind him. Concluding that he was being mind-controlled, the Team resolved to free Harjavti.The Team infiltrated the presidential palace, only to find a subdued Harjavti asking for Psimon and his daughter. They were accosted by Bialyan soldiers bearing Apokoliptan weapons. The soldiers planned to kill Harjavti, and pin the blame on the Team. Robin ordered the Team to form around Harjavti to protect him, but Miss Martian had already left to look for Psimon.After taking out the soldiers, Kid Flash and the rest of the Team tried to locate Miss Martian. When they had reached her proximity, they were taken out by a psychic attack. When they regained consciousness, Psimon was already defeated. Miss Martian blamed Psimon for blasting their brains. Queen Bee was defeated by publicly defaming her'or actually, Miss Martian pretending to be her'in front of the cameras.Back at the Logan Animal Sanctuary, Garfield had recovered from his ordeal. Kid Flash confronted Miss Martian with the Hello, Megan! videotape. She explained that the show helped her past a difficult childhood on Mars. On Robin's request, she showed them her "true" Martian form, but lied again: she showed a bald version of herself, with facial features resembling Martian Manhunter's.Wally helped himself to some treats while M'gann and Zatanna prepared Thanksgiving dinner. He left after M'gann asked him if he should be heading home, since he would be celebrating the holiday with his family.
December 2010
Wally was elated that Red Arrow finally joined the Team, but surprised at Artemis's reaction. Green Arrow gave them a mission to follow Sportsmaster, for which Artemis volunteered. On the way to New Orleans, Wally told Artemis he considered her part of the Team; he was just happy for Red Arrow because they go way back. But Artemis had, in his eyes, already proven herself.They found Sportsmaster easy enough. He had rented a boat, so they followed him. Wally rode his bike along the river. When he finally arrived at the location, he saw Roy and Artemis were fighting with Cheshire; he cannonballed into her and stole her sai. Red Arrow went after Sportsmaster, while Wally and Artemis had to fend off Cheshire. They allowed her to escape, after Artemis planted a tracer on her.They reviewed their case; Kid Flash defended Artemis from blame that she should have stayed in the Bio-Ship. He trusted her to track Cheshire, but she gave him the assignment instead.He followed it with Aqualad, but found it on a train, not on Cheshire. Red Arrow contacted them to meet him in New Orleans; Kaldur sent Kid Flash ahead.When he got to Red Arrow's location, Kid Flash attacked Cheshire, allowing Artemis the opportunity to investigate what went on in the back of the building. In the middle of the fight, Cheshire suddenly turned to ice and disappeared. All the other villains were gone.They returned home, where Red Arrow was quick to blame Artemis for the failure. She defended herself, but he didn't buy it. Kid Flash spoke in her defense as well, but then, Red Arrow showed him her tracer: she had deliberately shot a tracer at a passing train to send them in the wrong direction. Kid Flash accused her of insecurity, thinking Red Arrow's place in the Team caused her to want to solve the case solo. She didn't give a satisfying answer, which clinched it for him. He threw the sai at her feet, and added the tracer to his collection instead.Wally was hanging at the Cave, but everyone was gone. He checked with Red Tornado, but Batman hadn't given any missions. He contacted Dick, and confronted him with his finds. Robin had lied to the others about a secret mission from Batman, but confided with Wally that it was about Haly's Circus. Knowing his backstory, Wally thought he could have been a great addition to the mission. But Dick wouldn't have it; he didn't like his judgment being called into question. Wally replied that that was what best friends were for.The Team watched the induction of five new Justice Leaguers, including Red Arrow. They had to explain a lot to their newest member, Rocket, who was unfamiliar with everything that had happened the past weeks. In the middle of his explanation, Robin was interrupted by his computer. Cheshire was sighted boarding a plane in Asheville.They traced the plane to the Smokeys, and found it crashed in a valley. When they investigated, Riddler revealed it was an ambush; he put up a force field around them to prevent escape, and sent his associates in. Zatanna created a snowstorm, and each picked their target. Kid Flash took out multiple henchmen by running into them. When the battle was over, Riddler, Mammoth and Shimmer were arrested. They recovered a case Cheshire was carrying.The Team brought the case to Batman, who was going to.... But as soon as he and the other Leaguers left, the Team discussed the trap. Someone tipped off the villains.After being contacted ultrasonically by Lex Luthor, Superboy admitted to the Team that only half his DNA was human, he had been using shields, and that Luthor wanted him to go to Santa Prisca. Hearing this, Artemis came clean as well. She revealed her family secrets, that her mother was Huntress, her father Sportsmaster and her sister Cheshire. Suddenly, it all made sense to Kid Flash; why she was so secretive, and why she dropped the ball in New Orleans. After Robin explained to her that he had found out, but thought it didn't matter, Kid Flash walked beside her to support her. After Miss Martian revealed she was being blackmailed by Queen Bee, they formed a plan.Kid Flash was part of the back-up crew, called in if the fight broke loose. He first attacked Cheshire, and then tried to run at Sportsmaster. His attack was parried, however, and Sportsmaster threw him into a tree. By the time he'd recovered, Artemis had defeated her father, and gave Kid Flash his mask as a souvenir.Having returned from Santa Prisca, the Team learned from Batman that Red Arrow was the mole and a clone, and that the real Roy Harper was likely dead. Wally was shocked, and no one could believe it. As soon as Batman left, Red Tornado powered down. Kid Flash discovered Tornado held one of the chips they had confiscated off Cheshire. Kid Flash, Zatanna and Rocket stayed with Robin to try and fix Red, while the others went looking for Red Arrow.Zatanna suggested moving Tornado's consciousness into the "John Smith" android. While the transfer was completing, Black Canary arrived, and attacked them. Kid Flash was knocked back; Robin and Rocket defeated her. Red Tornado told them to abandon the Cave, and on their way to the rest of the Team, he explained the entire League had been put under mind control by the LightThe Team traveled to the Watchtower in the Bio-Ship and entered it clandestinely by breaching a hole in the side. Breaking into tactical teams, the Team split up. Artemis and Kid Flash ambushed Plastic Man and gave him cure-tech. Moving on, they soon found themselves fighting for their lives against Flash, Green Arrow and Aquaman in the hangar, requiring them to call in backup from the rest of the Team. Aqualad defeated them by opening and then closing the air lock, causing the Leaguers to hit the air-lock doors. When they made it to the central hall, they saw Klarion and Vandal Savage teleport away.
January 2011
At the stroke of New Year, Kid Flash picked up Artemis and they kissed. Both agreed they should have done it sooner.
2011-2015
Kid Flash left the team and gave up his superhero persona. He moved in with his girlfriend Artemis, and they both live in Palo Alto and go to college.
February 2016
Wally, along with Nightwing, Black Canary, Green Arrow, and the former Guardian, tried to talk some sense into Red Arrow. Nightwing and Wally reasoned that they never knew the real Speedy, and that the cloned Roy Harper was the one that the two met and trained along side. Their appeal was to deaf ears.After the failed attempt to convince Red Arrow of their friendship, Wally returned home to his house. Artemis greeted him, and tried to console him. Wally remembered that it's Valentines Day for the first time in five years and Artemis prepared a new stock full of food for their refrigerator as a gift. Wally hugged Artemis, but she could tell he was still worried about Roy. Wally called him a lost cause.

Video Games and Board Games
Wally appears as the Flash in the fighting game Justice League Task Force.
Wally is a playable character in Justice League Heroes, voiced by Chris Edgerly. He is also the star of the spin-off, Justice League Heroes: The Flash.
Kid Flash is a playable character in Young Justice: Legacy.
Wally appears as Kid Flash in Lego Batman 3: Beyond Gotham.Wally appears as the Flash in the fighting game Justice League Task Force.Wally is a playable character in Justice League Heroes, voiced by Chris Edgerly. He is also the star of the spin-off, Justice League Heroes: The Flash.Kid Flash is a playable character in Young Justice: Legacy.Wally appears as Kid Flash in Lego Batman 3: Beyond Gotham.HeroclixsIn 2007 in a Heroclixs series called Justice League, Wally West the Flash is made in the series and on his power card it has his comic book appearance. They have made all the Flash Family like Barry Allen, Wally West and Bart Allen-Kid Flash of the Flash Family.