
First Class
Sensing that he had the qualities of a natural-born leader (and believing that he needed something to work towards), Professor X made Cyclops deputy head of the X-Men. Cyclops was such an efficient leader that for a short while, he led the X-Men without Xavier. Although he was dedicated to leading the X-Men, Cyclops soon fell in love with his teammate Jean Grey, aka Marvel Girl.Scott was fearful of starting a relationship, afraid of hurting someone with his uncontrollable power. He was also a bit insecure about his physical appearance, believing Jean would prefer to date the handsome Warren. Jean soon realized that she also had feelings for Scott, and they started a relationship. They became almost inseparable. Even when Xavier was thought to be dead, and the X-Men split up, Scott and Jean stayed together.
Enter Havok
After the original five X-Men were formed, Cyclops' long lost brother Alex was discovered. Like Cyclops, he had developed a highly destructive mutant power which was detected by Cerebro. Adopting the code name "Havok", Alex became a member of the X-Men. An unusual genetic quirk existed between the two brothers, with neither of them able to hurt the other with their mutant powers. Instead, they would absorb the energy the other directed at them. However, as Cyclops was more tactically minded and experienced in battle, he would always best Havok in brotherly scraps.
Second Genesis
The original X-Men reformed under Professor X, but they were defeated and captured by the living island Krakoa. The Professor assembled a new team of mutants to save his original X-Men. Cyclops' long lost brother Kid Vulcan was one of the members. The team failed, and was believed to be dead. Cyclops had managed to escape, but had lost his ruby quartz visor and his power was inactive. Using the X-Men's jet, he made his way to Professor X for help. Xavier was distraught by the death of the team, and by his own failure, so he wiped all knowledge of the team from Cyclops' mind including all knowledge of his brother.Another team of international X-Men was assembled by Xavier, with Cyclops leading them back to battle Krakoa. The new team successfully rescued the original X-Men. However, the old team decided to leave both the mansion and the X-Men behind, moving on now that they had matured. Cyclops chose to remain at the school, for fear his uncontrollable power wouldn't allow him to fit into society.He continued to be Xavier's deputy leader, and acted as field leader to the new team of X-Men. The team was not initially as tight-knit as the original X-Men, despite the hard training Cyclops put them through. Thunderbird was killed during the new team's second mission against Count Nefaria and his Ani-Men, which haunted Cyclops and made him question his ability to lead.
Phoenix Saga
Despite the departure of the original X-Men, Cyclops continued to date Marvel Girl. He found that he had a new rival for her affections in the form of Wolverine. The Canadian X-Man had a much wilder personality compared to the disciplined Cyclops, and he was quite open about his attraction to Jean. Shortly after she left the X-Men, Jean was kidnapped by Sentinels along with Professor X, Wolverine, and Banshee, and taken to an abandoned SHIELD space station. There, the anti-mutant activist Steven Lang unveiled his plans for an all new generation of Sentinels. The X-Men arrived to defeat Lang and rescue their teammates, but their escape shuttle was damaged.A solar storm began to leak lethal radiation into the shuttle as the X-Men made their way back to Earth. Jean volunteered to pilot the shuttle, absorbing the knowledge to operate it from Dr. Peter Corbeau and using her telekinesis to shield herself from the radiation. The other X-Men were placed in stasis for their protection. However, Jean started to succumb to the radiation's lethal effects.The cosmic entity known as the Phoenix Force responded to Jean's anguished telepathic call. The Phoenix Force reformed itself after Jean's own image and consciousness, then placed her in suspended animation in a cocoon at the bottom of Jamaica Bay.The shuttle reentered the Earth's atmosphere, crashing in Jamaica Bay. The X-Men swam safely to the surface, but there was no sign of Marvel Girl. Suddenly, the water erupted, and the "Phoenix" emerged in Jean's form. She declared herself "fire and life incarnate" to the X-Men, before collapsing.
Enter Corsair
While Phoenix lay in the hospital, the X-Men went to the M'Kraan Crystal's homeworld to battle the Shi'ar Imperial Guard. There they came in contact with a band of space pirates known as the Starjammers. The captain of the Starjammers was a man known as Corsair. Cyclops and Corsair resented each other, though they also admired each others' leadership skills. Years later it was discovered that Corsair was Christopher Summers, the father of Cyclops and Havok. It transpired that Christopher and his wife Katherine Anne were taken from their burning plane by a group of intergalactic slavers. Katherine had died at the hands of the evil Shi'ar despot D'Ken, while Christopher managed to escape and fight D'Ken's regime with his small band of pirates under the re-imagined persona of Corsair.
Cyclops and Phoenix
Cyclops believed that the Phoenix was Jean, and maintained a relationship with her. However, he started to privately question their relationship, feeling that the reborn Jean was not the same Jean he had fallen in love with. When Cyclops thought that the Phoenix was dead for a period of time after they were separated in the Savage Land, he felt unable to mourn her. Believing this meant that he no longer loved Jean, Cyclops briefly dated Colleen Wing.The Phoenix was reunited with Cyclops when the X-Men stopped Moira MacTaggert's mutant son, Proteus, from destroying reality. Cyclops rediscovered his love for Phoenix, and they shared a romantic kiss on the way home. Cyclops was impressed with Phoenix's new found level of control over her immense powers. She created a special 'psychic bond' between herself and Cyclops, so they could always contact each other.After a battle with the Hellfire Club over the recruitment of the mutant pop star Dazzler, Phoenix and Cyclops shared an intimate night together. Phoenix flew them both to a deserted area, where she removed Cyclops' ruby quartz visor, and told him to open his eyes. Wary at first, Cyclops eventually opened his eyes.Phoenix used her telekinesis to keep Cyclops' powers in check, so that he could see without the aid of his visor. It was the first time since puberty that Cyclops was able to see without the aid of ruby quartz. The couple embraced, kissed, and made love in the lonely desert.
Dark Phoenix Saga
Phoenix soon began to experience realistic illusions where she lived in 18th century England and was betrothed to a man known only as Nikos. She didn't confide in Cyclops what had been happening to her. It turned out that the old X-Men foe, Mastermind, had his powers of illusion boosted by a psionic mind-tap device created by the Hellfire Club's White Queen, Emma Frost.Mastermind had been creating the illusions in Phoenix's mind, making her believe that she was his 18th century lover, Lady Grey. Phoenix had even assumed the role of the Hellfire Club's new Black Queen. She relished in all the decadent freedom and power that the position afforded her, but Cyclops remained in contact with Jean through their special psychic bond as the X-Men battled the Hellfire Club over the soul of the Phoenix.Using this connection, Cyclops engaged Mastermind in a psychic duel when the X-Men came to rescue Phoenix. Mastermind defeated Cyclops. Cyclops' defeat broke Mastermind's hold over Phoenix's psyche, but also any control Jean had over the Phoenix. Transformed into the Dark Phoenix, she quickly defeated Mastermind by devastating his mind with her godlike powers before flying into space.While the Phoenix represented the light and life of the universe, the Dark Phoenix represented power and destruction. Flying to a distant galaxy, the Dark Phoenix devoured the star of the D'Bari system to sate its hunger for power, killing billions of innocent people in the process. The Shi'ar Empress Lilandra was alerted and summoned an intergalactic council that included the Kree and Skrull empires. They concluded that, for the rest of the universe to live, the Dark Phoenix must be destroyed. The fate of Jean Grey had been decided.Meanwhile, Beast had found a way to temporarily neutralize Phoenix's power. When Dark Phoenix returned to Earth, the X-Men held her at bay while Professor X worked to rebuild the mental blocks in her brain that Mastermind had broken down. The Phoenix threatened to kill all of them, but Cyclops kept trying to reach out to her. Eventually the Phoenix returned to normal and Cyclops finally proposed to her, just as they are teleported away by the Shi'ar to their flagship. Lilandra announced that the Phoenix, who everyone believed to be Jean, had to die. Unwilling to let one his students be killed, Xavier challenged Lilandra (who he was romantically involved with) to a duel she couldn't refuse. Professor X named the X-Men as his champions, while Lilandra named her Imperial Guard.The battle took place the next day on the Blue Area of the Moon. The Imperial Guard quickly defeated the X-Men, leaving Cyclops and Phoenix to make a final stand. The battle triggered Phoenix's transformation into Dark Phoenix once more. Lilandra ordered Plan Omega, which would destroy the entire solar system in hopes of eliminating the Dark Phoenix.Professor X ordered the X-Men to subdue Phoenix so this would not be necessary. After the X-Men managed to subdue Phoenix, she realized that she would never be able to control herself and fled to a back alley. Cyclops chased after her, but Phoenix subdued him by using her telekinesis.She told Cyclops that she was losing control and that there was only one way to prevent the Dark Phoenix from taking dominance again. Phoenix then activated an ancient Kree energy weapon and, after bidding Cyclops an emotional farewell, sacrificed herself. Cyclops and the X-Men mourned.
X-Man No More
The Shi'ar allowed the remaining X-Men to return to Earth. However, Cyclops struggled to continue being an X-Man while he grieved for the woman he loved. He soon after left the X-Men to travel on his own. For a time Cyclops traveled as a ship's mate on board Lee Forrester's boat.They became close, but Cyclops was still in mourning for Jean. When they went to Lee's family home, Cyclops observed Lee's father being murdered by D'Spayre. Cyclops had to reveal his mutant power in order to save Lee from D'Spayre. Although Cyclops grew closer to Lee their romance was short lived, and he returned to Alaska to be with his family.
Madelyne Pryor
In Alaska Cyclops was reunited with his father, brother, and paternal grandparents, who owned their own small shipping airline. At their airport, Cyclops was introduced to one of their pilots, a red-headed young woman named Madelyne Pryor. Her physical resemblance to Jean was uncanny, and Scott soon fell in love with her.It was a whirlwind romance for Cyclops and Maddie. It wasn't long before they were married, and Maddie became pregnant with their son. Cyclops returned to the X-Men with Maddie at his side. Once there, he struggled to maintain a healthy balance between his role as an X-Man and that of a husband and soon-to-be father. Scott resumed leadership of the X-Men and took the team to Asgard to rescue the New Mutants.After their return to Earth, they went to France to fend off the riots outside of Magneto's trial for his crimes as a terrorist. Magneto was successfully pardoned for his crime, and joined with the X-Men. While Cyclops was away from the mansion with the X-Men, Maddie was left alone. During her solitude in the mansion, her water broke and she gave birth to their son in the kitchen of the mansion. Without Cyclops' agreement, she named the boy Nathan. This caused an intense argument between Maddie and Cyclops. Cyclops had wanted to name his son Christopher Charles, after the two fathers in his life, with the name "Nathan" reminding him of the bully from the orphanage where he grew up.
Cyclops vs. Storm
With the argument over the baby's name still fresh in his mind, Cyclops was forced to confront whether or not he was still able to lead the X-Men. During his absence from the team, Storm had successfully acted as field leader in Cyclops' place. Even though she had lost her mutant powers, Storm challenged Cyclops to a one-on-one duel in the Danger Room for leadership of the X-Men.The fight was short-lived, as Storm quickly removed Cyclops' ruby quartz visor, rendering him unable to control his power. Cyclops conceded defeat and left the X-Men once more. Together with Madelyne and their baby he traveled back to Alaska and began working for the family business. However, Scott clearly wasn't happy with his new domestic life.
The Return of Jean Grey
While Cyclops was living in Alaska with his family, the Avengers and Fantastic Four made a marvelous discovery. Hidden on the floor of Jamaica Bay was a stone cocoon. It transpired that Marvel Girl had been placed in a catatonic state, and left in the stone pod to protect her while a cosmic being known as the Phoenix replaced her. With her resurrection Jean, was returned to her former teammates Angel, Beast, and Iceman. Marvel Girl couldn't understand why the world had changed so much, that their mentor had abandoned them to live in space while their former foe Magneto was leading the X-Men. The others had grown tired of trying to fit into regular everyday life, and with Jean's miraculous return from the dead they decided to reform the original team of X-Men.When they made the phone call to Cyclops to inform him of Marvel Girl's return, he was in the middle of an argument with Madelyne. Their relationship had grown distant and unhappy. Cyclops spent hours out in the yard using his power to chop firewood in order to avoid spending time with his family. Maddie gave him an ultimatum, if he left to go back to New York then he should never return.Without a word, Cyclops walked out the door and took the first plane back to New York. Back in the city, he was reunited with his first love. However, he could not passionately embrace Marvel Girl, as he felt burdened by the guilt of leaving his wife and child.Cyclops soon discovered that Marvel Girl only possessed her telekinetic abilities, she had lost her telepathy and could not read his mind. Cyclops chose not to inform Jean about Madelyne or his infant son. Instead he maintained a stoic distance from her that continued to upset and frustrate her.
X-Factor
With all five of the original X-Men reunited, they decided to team-up and fight for mutant rights once more. Angel's old friend from college, Cameron Hodge, agreed to manage their finances and convinced them to pose as mutant hunters. X-Factor became known as a group of humans who hunted mutants. The general public would be encouraged to telephone their hot line with reports of mutant activity. X-Factor would go to the scene and rescue frightened mutants and take them back to their headquarters to train them. Hodge, however, would later turn out to not be as benevolent towards the mutant cause as he appeared.
Guilty Husband
Cyclops soon became a victim to his own guilt, as well as the cruel machinations of both Sinister and Cameron Hodge (who secretly hated mutants). When Scott went to Alaska to visit his estranged wife and child, he found the work of Sinister's Marauders. The house had been thoroughly cleansed of all signs that Madelyne and Scott had ever lived there. At the airline, all the staff had been replaced and all the files on Madelyne had been destroyed. Cyclops couldn't find any trace that his wife and child had ever existed.As his sanity began to spiral out of control, he found a grave marked for Madelyne. Cyclops began to hallucinate, seeing the ghost of Jean, who merged into the Phoenix and then into Maddie. Frustrated and upset, Scott shot through the apparition with his powers. The red beam was seen by a local police officer, who took Cyclops along for questioning. However, they were then attacked by a Sentinel.Cyclops convinced the officer to release him from his handcuffs and hide while he battled the sentinel. After defeating the sentinel Cyclops was thanked by the police officer, who took him back to the house. Cyclops started to think that he was going mad, until he found one of Nathan's toys that had fallen behind the radiator. Cyclops returned to New York, determined to find out what was happening. However, his mental health was becoming unstable and he had grown convinced that Marvel Girl was really the Phoenix.
Mental Breakdown
Cameron Hodge discovered Cyclops' mental anguish, and planted a holographic projection of the Phoenix in Cyclops' computer. When Cyclops turned on his computer, the holographic image emerged from the monitor and taunted him.The image even assumed the forms of both Madelyne and Jean in an effort to make Cyclops think that the Phoenix had been both all along. The hologram disappeared just as Marvel Girl entered the room, confusing Cyclops all the more. Cyclops grabbed Jean, demanding that she stop playing with his mind.After blasting parts of the building, Cyclops told Jean to hold his powers back like she had done when he made love to her in the desert. Despite Jean's protests that she wasn't the Phoenix, Cyclops chose to remove his visor. Amazingly, his eyes didn't fire their destructive concussive force. However, Scott's moment of rapture was short lived when he realized that the young mutant Leech was nearby.Leech had used his own mutation to temporarily remove Cyclops' power. The other young wards of X-Factor raced to the scene with Iceman and Beast. Inspecting the computer, they discover the hologram of the Phoenix. Realizing what had happened, Cyclops was forced to accept the reality that Marvel Girl wasn't Phoenix and apologized for his actions.
The Hunt for Nathan Christopher Summers
With his secrets about his estranged wife and child finally revealed, Cyclops continued to work with X-Factor to save young mutants while also searching for his missing family with Marvel Girl's help. X-Factor had been publicly revealed as mutants, but because they struggled at their own cost to save lives of New Yorkers after Apocalypse's attack, they were accepted as local heroes. What Cyclops didn't know was that Madelyne had been on the run from the Marauders. Her journey took her to San Francisco, where she crossed paths with the X-Men. They saved her and took her back to their new base in Australia.While X-Factor had been battling the Four Horsemen in New York, the X-Men appeared to sacrifice their lives in Dallas. A television news crew filmed the events, showing Madelyne's impassioned plea to Cyclops for him to find baby Nathan Christopher. Cyclops and Marvel Girl traveled to Alaska to visit the orphanage where Cyclops had grown up. There, they uncovered Mr. Sinister's secret laboratories hidden underneath the building.Inside were mutant children, including Gailyn and Joey Bailey, Marvel Girl's missing niece and nephew. When they finally found Nathan he was being kept unconscious in a pod along with other mutant babies. Cyclops and Marvel Girl were then attacked by the Nanny and her Orphan Maker. While fighting to stop Nanny from kidnapping Gailyn and Joey, demons suddenly appeared and kidnapped Nathan. Marvel Girl was forced to leave her family in order to save Cyclops' son.
Inferno
The demons took baby Nathan to N'astirh. The demon sorcerer had corrupted Madelyne's feelings of despair, transforming her into the Goblin Queen. With her growing telepathic and telekinetic powers, the Goblin Queen sent her hordes of demons to find her missing son. She wanted her revenge on Scott by destroying the only evidence of their marriage, she was going to murder Nathan.Cyclops and Marvel Girl returned to New York and were reunited with the other members of X-Factor. There, they were forced to battle the demon-possessed members of the X-Men. Wolverine gladly battled Cyclops, which distracted Cyclops from saving his son. Eventually, the X-Men overcame their demonic urges and the two mutant teams joined forces to fight their common enemy. They pursued the Goblin Queen into her growing tower above Manhattan. Cyclops was forced to battle his brother Havok, who had become the "Goblin Prince", Madelyne's new lover. Marvel Girl fought against Madelyne.Cyclops defeated Havok, and Marvel Girl managed to defeat the Goblin Queen. As Madelyne lay dying in Marvel Girl's arms, she passed all of her memories and parts of the Phoenix Force into Marvel Girl's mind. Madelyne's memories informed Marvel Girl of who had been the real mastermind behind her existence. Mr. Sinister had cloned Jean, but the clone remained lifeless. After the Phoenix died on the moon, the Force approached the lifeless body of Jean Grey on the floor of Jamaica Bay. When Jean unconsciously rejected the Phoenix it found another host, the body of Jean's clone.When the Phoenix animated the clone's body, Sinister implanted her with false memories and gave her the name Madelyne Pryor. He then placed her in Alaska, where she was guaranteed to meet and become romantically involved with Cyclops. However, Madelyne retained the Phoenix's replicated telepathic and telekinetic abilities. Madelyne hadn't realized it, but for years she had been using her powers on a subconscious level. She had even been the actual cause of Cyclops' surprising defeat when Storm challenged him for leadership of the X-Men. However, without the same experience Jean Grey had, Madelyne slowly became corrupted by her powers. Marvel Girl led the X-Men and X-Factor to the site of the Xavier Institute where they confronted Mr. Sinister for the first time.However, Cyclops was unable to face Sinister. When he was still a boy living at the orphanage, Mr. Sinister had planted mental blocks inside of Cyclops' mind. Therefore, he was unable to help while Sinister defeated the X-Men and X-Factor. With the stress of the situation mounting, Cyclops worked to overcome Sinister's mental blocks. With Marvel Girl's help, and Havok using his powers to overcharge him, Cyclops was finally able to use his optic blasts on Sinister. It was the first successful strike against Sinister, as he was unable to adapt to the blasts. Cyclops unleashed an extremely powerful attack, blasting Sinister's body to pieces. Though he had finally defeated his childhood tormentor, it would not be the last time Cyclops saw Sinister.
Apocalypse and Askani
Finally, Cyclops was surrounded by the family he always wanted. Together with Jean they cared for his son. They referred to the baby as Christopher rather than Nathan, as Cyclops' had always intended, and Jean thought of him as her own son. Later, when Nanny and the Orphan Maker reappeared, Cyclops and Jean were able to defeat them and rescue Jean's brainwashed niece and nephew. When X-Factor went on a mission in England, Jean packed baby supplies and insisted that they take baby Christopher. Not much later, their family life was ruined. Apocalypse returned, and part of his new scheme was to have baby Nathan Christopher infected with a techno-organic virus.Although Apocalypse was ultimately defeated, there was no cure for baby Nathan Christopher. Mysteriously, a strange woman appeared out of nowhere. The woman told Cyclops that her name was Askani, and that she had traveled from the distant future. She seemed to be infected with the same techno-organic virus as baby Nathan, and claimed that while there was no cure for it that there was a way to save the child.She offered to take the baby into the future where he would receive the necessary care to survive his infection, learn to live with it, and eventually become a savior to humankind. Cyclops was torn between keeping his son and watching him die, or allowing Askani to take him into the future where he may be saved. Ultimately, Cyclops made the decision to selflessly give Nathan to Askani. Immediately after taking baby Nathan, Askani disappeared into the future.
Return to the X-Men
After an adventure in space involving the Celestials and X-Factor's ship, they returned to Earth. X-Factor teamed up with the X-Men to free Storm and members of the New Mutants from Genosha. Cyclops was forced to fight his brother Havok once again. Havok had been forced through the Siege Perilous, and been given a new life working as a Genoshan Magistrate. Therefore, he didn't recognize his brother or any of his old allies. Although Cyclops managed to defeat his brother, all of the X-teams were taken captive by the Genoshans and had their powers removed.It was only due to the secret planning of the Genegineer David Moreau that Cyclops' power was restored when he came in contact with a de-aged Storm. The process also restored Storm to her original adult age. Soon after, both X-Factor and the X-Men were forced to combat their former allies on Muir Island, who had been possessed by the Shadow King. The X-Men had been spread out across the globe, but after their many victories they had a larger roster of members than ever before.They decided to merge all of the teams, including X-Factor, and then split the X-Men into two strike teams. While Havok, Polaris, and the other Muir Island X-Men became the new government sponsored X-Factor, the old X-Factor was assimilated into the new X-Men Blue and Gold teams. Storm led the Gold team, while Cyclops commanded the Blue team.
X-Men Blue
Cyclops' Blue strike team was more aggressive than Storm's Gold team. Aside from Beast and Rogue, the team included members that Cyclops had either struggled to cooperate with in the past or had never worked with before. Wolverine and Cyclops rarely saw eye to eye due to Cyclops' leadership and their mutual attraction to Jean Grey. Gambit was a natural loner, who often worked towards his own agenda. Jubilee was still very young, and relatively inexperienced in action.Psylocke had been through many life-changing experiences since Cyclops first met her, and the two soon became attracted to one another. Psylocke was open about her flirtation with Cyclops, who tried to deny his attraction to her.
X-Cutioner's Song
As they were enjoying a relaxing cup of coffee, Jean caught Cyclops daydreaming about Psylocke. As he was reassuring her that it was nothing, they were ambushed by Caliban and kidnapped before any of the other X-Men could do anything to help. Meanwhile, Stryfe had disguised himself as Cable and shot Professor Xavier with a techno-organic bullet at a peace rally in Central Park. The X-Men divided their resources between working to save the Professor, tracking down Cable, and investigating the whereabouts of their missing friends. They captured X-Force, fought the Mutant Liberation Front, Horsemen of the Apocalypse, and Dark Riders, before teaming up with Apocalypse to uncover who had orchestrated several attacks at once.It transpired that Cyclops and Jean Grey had been kidnapped by Stryfe. They struggled to break free from their cell and escape the high-tech base. They were recaptured and placed into solitary confinement where they were prodded by mechanical torture devices. On one of their attempts to escape they came across a baby who resembled Nathan Christopher when he was infected with the techno-organic virus. The baby was connected to the base's computers and wired to detonate. Sadly, Jean found out that the baby would die if they separated it from the machine.Stryfe was convinced that the two would kill the baby in order to save themselves, but Cyclops and Jean refused to harm the child. Confused, Stryfe removed the baby, and soon Cyclops and Jean managed to escape. However, when they got outside they found themselves trapped in a small pocket of air located on the surface of the moon. Bishop, Cable, and Wolverine tracked Stryfe down. However, Stryfe had created a force field that prevented anyone from entering, unless they had either Summers or Grey genetics.While the other X-Men waited outside of the force field, Cable and Havok continued onwards to stop Stryfe. When they reached Stryfe, his plans were finally revealed. Stryfe believed that he was Nathan Christopher Summers, and had been abandoned in the future where he was raised by cold and unloving machines. For this, he sought revenge on Scott and Jean, who he believed were his biological parents.However, Stryfe had been wrong. He was not Nathan, but instead a clone of the techno-organic infected baby. It was revealed that Cable was in fact Cyclops' son Nathan Christopher, back from the future. Stryfe opened a powerful vortex with the intent to kill everyone. Cable jumped into the vortex and began fighting against Stryfe.In the ensuing struggle between Cable and his clone, Stryfe was seemingly killed; but not before he managed to unleash the extremely deadly Legacy Virus into the Earth's atmosphere. Cable appeared to drag the destructive power of the vortex forwards through time, saving everyone. Cyclops had finally been reunited with his son, only to lose him to the future once again.
Wedding Day and Honeymoon
It had been years since the death of Madelyne Pryor. Scott and Jean had been through a lot as a couple, and had nearly lost each other on several occasions. They decided that the time was right for them to get married, before anything else could happen to them. The date was set, the invitations went out, and Scott and Jean arranged for a priest to perform the ceremony at the mansion. Storm used her powers to ensure that the weather would be suitably warm and bright for the wedding ceremony.Surrounded by their many friends and family, long-time lovers Scott Summers and Jean Grey were married. At long last, Jean Grey had finally become Jean Grey-Summers. Unfortunately, the instant they left the safe confines of the mansion, Cyclops and Jean were snatched away. This time, they were dragged thousands of years into the future. They found themselves inhabiting bodies that had been created for their psychic consciousnesses, that could reproduce their own powers. They were finally reunited with the baby boy who they thought they would never see again. As Redd and Slym Dayspring, Jean and Cyclops were given the chance to raise Nathan Christopher Summers, otherwise known as Askani'son.Redd and Slym lived in the future with the Askani'son for twelve years. During that time they cared for him, helped educate him, and kept him safe from the clutches of Apocalypse and his forces. Askani'son had a clone who was created as a means to deceive and slow down Apocalypse. This clone, who would one day become Stryfe, was snatched away by Apocalypse and raised to become his heir.Apocalypse later tried to shift his life-force into the child's body, but as a result he realized that he was a clone and not the actual Askani'son. Apocalypse then rejected the boy. This led to the anger and resentment that caused Stryfe to later kidnap Scott and Jean.After twelve years had passed, and Askani'son had grown, Redd and Slym bid their son a tearful farewell. Rachel Summers became the elderly woman known as "Mother Askani", and established the Askani religion in order to help raise her half-brother. Rachel summoned the power to send her biological parents back into the past, but as she did so she urged Jean to take on the name Phoenix.Cyclops and Phoenix were forced to leave their son once again, with their minds being returned back to their real bodies in the present day. They discovered themselves lying on a beach, dressed in strange uniforms. There, they had to aid an elderly woman. They encountered Mr. Sinister, who informed Cyclops that he had another brother. Once they had successfully helped the old lady, they were free to enjoy the exotic island for the remainder of their honeymoon.
Operation: Zero Tolerance
Cyclops was taken prisoner as part of Operation: Zero Tolerance. Although the X-Men managed to free Cyclops, he was wounded by the surgical implantation of a bomb next to his heart. The reluctant X-Man recruit Dr. Cecilia Reyes had to perform a hasty surgery on Cyclops in the hallway of the mansion. While she lacked the proper surgical equipment, Cecilia managed to remove the bomb from Cyclops and safely stitch his chest back together.
Apocalypse: The Twelve
Cyclops and Phoenix spend some time away to recuperate, but are convinced by Storm to return to the X-Men. Apocalypse had found the dozen powerful fabled mutants referred to as " The Twelve" who could help power a machine that would enable him the power to take control of Nate Grey's body. In order to protect Nate, Cyclops merged with Apocalypse, thereby becoming his new host body. Cyclops was considered to have died in action.However, neither Phoenix nor Cable gave up on him. They tracked down Apocalypse, and confronted him in Egypt. In the ensuing battle they were able to separate Apocalypse from Cyclops' body, destroying Apocalypse's spirit. Cyclops was haunted by the experience of being merged with Apocalypse and began to question his life, relationships, and how he had handled situations with the X-Men. Cyclops displayed a much more ruthless personality, and began going on more missions with Wolverine (who he started to form an unlikely friendship with).
E is for Extinction
Xavier's mansion became a school once again, and began accepting mutants from around the world on a much larger scale than ever before. The X-Men continued operating from the mansion. Cyclops performed both administrative and liaison duties for the school, on top of leading the X-Men out in the field. However, Cyclops' behavior had noticeably changed as he became more stoic.While on the way back from a mission in Australia, to retrieve the mutant Ugly John, Wolverine and Cyclops encountered a new breed of Sentinel. The Sentinels were under the control of Cassandra Nova, Professor Xavier's evil twin sister. Cyclops and Wolverine crash their plane and are left stranded.Cyclops commands Wolverine to watch over John, but they are soon ambushed and held prisoner by Nova's new Sentinels. Although Cyclops manages to fight against Nova, John is dying in immense pain after being tortured. Cyclops puts John out of his misery with an optic blast.Sentinels under Nova's control attack Magneto's sovereign nation of Genosha, massacring sixteen million mutants. Beast and Jean go to assist with the relief work, discovering that Emma Frost is among the survivors due to the activation of her secondary mutation (an organic diamond form). Upon their return to the mansion, the X-Men come under direct attack from Cassandra Nova. As Professor Xavier's genetic twin, Nova possessed immense telepathic powers.Nova manages to disable Cyclops by feeding off his insecurities and telepathically placing his mind in a "black bug room" inhabited by giant talking cockroaches. Cyclops eventually snaps out of the illusion and Nova is seemingly defeated by Xavier and Emma. Cyclops chooses to keep his distance from Jean, feeling confused and unable to express his troubles. Jean's deepening connection to the Phoenix Force further distanced her, as her emotions became more influenced by it's power.
Psychic Affair
Cyclops continued to keep his distance from Jean, who respected his wish for celibacy. Professor X had left the institute and gone into space (his body under the control of Cassandra Nova) to be with the Shi'ar Empress Lilandra, leaving Phoenix as headmistress of the Institute. Cyclops began to feel neglected, and didn't feel like he could communicate with Jean. He sought the help of Emma Frost, and the two engaged in a series of psychic "therapy sessions" to help him get through his frustrations.Emma took advantage of this situation in order to get closer to Cyclops. While in Hong Kong, investigating mutant deaths caused by the U-Men, Scott and Emma spent the night drinking champagne together. They started a telepathic affair, without any physical contact. The relationship was sexual in nature, appearing to revolve around Cyclops' varied fantasies about his wife. Although Emma was manipulating a confused Scott into continuing the affair, she eventually realized that she'd fallen in love with him.As the affair was psychic in nature, Scott and Emma would often be in contact while in the company of their teammates. Even while out on missions, Cyclops would find himself maintaining mental contact with Emma. Phoenix questioned Cyclops directly about whether anything had happened in Hong Kong. His response was stoic, telling her that Emma kept him up the entire night. As a teacher at the Xavier Institute, Emma continued to closely monitor her five telepathic students, the Stepford Cuckoos.The girls had discovered Emma's affair with Cyclops, and were angry with their mentor after the death of their sister, Sophie. They led Phoenix into the mansion garden, where Cyclops and Emma were telepathically engaged together. Phoenix entered Cyclops' mind without permission where she found Cyclops embracing Emma, who was dressed as the Dark Phoenix. An enraged Phoenix telepathically attacked Emma without mercy.Furious, Cyclops demanded that Jean read his mind and look at the memories of the night he spent with Emma in Hong Kong. Phoenix saw that Cyclops had not been physically intimate with Emma, though she was still angry about their mental affair. Cyclops then abruptly leaves on Wolverine's motorcycle.
Assault on Weapon Plus
Frustrated with himself, Cyclops is left torn between his desires for Jean and Emma. Wolverine finds him getting drunk at the Hellfire Club, which has been reformed into a gentleman's club.The two X-Men are soon recruited by the enigmatic Fantomex, who convinces them both to aid him in his plan to break into the secret Weapon Plus facilities. He promises Wolverine information about his past and the Weapon X project, while Cyclops is simply promised the chance to blow off some steam. Neither Wolverine nor Fantomex give Cyclops the chance to recover from his binge drinking. He is dragged, hung over, into the heavily guarded time-pocket facility known as The World.Eventually their mission leads them into outer space. Cyclops confesses to Wolverine his feelings about his marriage to Jean. He admits that he is attracted to Emma because she is more accepting than Jean, without judging him for wanting to try something different.Wolverine and Scott are eventually separated, Scott escaping with Fantomex back to Earth and Logan trapped in the space shuttle. Wolverine is rescued by Jean, who accesses the Phoenix to return them to Earth after Wolverine is forced to stab her (causing Jean to die then resurrect).
Planet X
While Cyclops and Wolverine were away in space, the X-Men's new remedial teacher Xorn revealed his true identity and plans. Xorn had apparently been Magneto in disguise, and he had turned his class into a new mutant Brotherhood. Cyclops was astounded, as he had liberated Xorn from the U-Men in Hong Kong and considered him to be a good friend.However, Xorn's strength had faltered and he became reliant on the power-enhancing drug Kick. It was later revealed that Xorn had been under the control of John Sublime, and was merely using the guise of "Magneto" to gain followers. In a confrontation with Xorn, Cyclops blasts his telepathy-blocking helmet to pieces in a moment of self-realization and rage. Phoenix arrives to face off against Xorn, but he mortally wounds her by inducing a planetary-scale stroke.Xorn asks to be made into a martyr, and a feral Wolverine decapitates him in a fit of berserker rage. As Phoenix lay dying in Cyclops' arms, he apologized for hurting her. Phoenix comforted Cyclops, telling him that she hadn't seen him so alive in a long time. With her dying words she told Scott to live, as all she ever did was die on him. Once again, Scott Summers had lost Jean Grey. With his wife's death, a grieving and guilt-ridden Scott considers leaving the X-Men.
Headmaster Summers
As Phoenix died, her consciousness floated through time where she saw a broken future. Her friends were all either corrupted, or had died in battle. In that time, the Phoenix was awoken and used to attack her old friends. The Phoenix informs Jean that the dark and warped future could have been prevented if the Institute had remained open to care for the X-Men and train younger mutants. She discovered that it all hinged on a critical moment when Cyclops rejected a chance to become headmaster of the Institute.Soon after Phoenix's funeral, Cyclops went to stand at her graveside. Emma Frost arrives and makes him an offer. Her proposition is that she and Cyclops live and work together as co-headmasters of the Institute. She makes it clear that if he refuses then she will walk away and close the school. After Phoenix observes the dark potential future, she returns to the moment when Cyclops rejected Emma's offer. With a psychic nudge, Phoenix pushes Cyclops to move on and accept his desire to be with Emma.
The Need to Astonish
Cyclops and Emma reform both the Xavier Institute for Higher Learning and the X-Men. Cyclops believes that the X-Men need to "astonish" the world as superheroes, thus portraying mutants in a more positive light. He forms a team to become more prominent in the public. Emma personally chooses Kitty Pryde to join the team, as their mutant "poster child". The team's first mission is dealing with an alien named Ord, of the Breakworld. The team subdues Ord, but not before learning that one of their own will be responsible for the destruction of Breakworld within the coming year.Soon after, the Danger Room begins showing signs of sentience and hostility. The X-Men defeat Danger, but the consequences affect them deeply. Professor X knew about the sentience of Danger, and he had chose to keep it a secret. The X-Men are dismayed by this news and push Xavier further away. Cyclops, who had already taken the role as headmaster of the Institute, became the new authority that the X-Men looked to for leadership. Xavier had always groomed Scott to replace him, and now was his time.
Overcoming Trauma
During a telepathic 'therapy session', Emma presents Cyclops with the possibility that his lack of control over his optic blasts doesn't actually stem from physical brain damage, but from a mental block that the young Scott imposed upon himself after the combined traumas of the loss of his parents, separation from his brother, and the shocking manifestation of his power.This acts as a coping mechanism, giving Scott something to focus on and maintain control over at a time when events out of his control had effectively shattered the life he had led up to that point. Surprisingly, Scott seemed to admit that this theory was the truth of the matter, further admitting that he had even blocked making the decision out of his memory to preserve the fallacy in his own mind and prevent others from discovering the truth.Scott apparently enters into a catatonic state, with his eyes uncovered and displaying their natural shade of brown, with no evidence of his powers manifesting. Later, Scott manifests his optic blasts when the X-Men are on Breakworld. For a time Scott had control of his power, but eventually he needed to revert back to using his ruby quartz visor.
Deadly Genesis
After the events of House of M, the mutant race became an endangered species, and Xavier was missing. A mysterious villain attacked the X-Men and easily defeated several members, including Cyclops and his alternate-reality daughter, Rachel Summers. The two are captured and brought to a location that Cyclops vaguely remembers from his past.Cyclops and Rachel free themselves and attempt to escape. While escaping they meet their captor. He is revealed to be Vulcan, Cyclops’ younger brother. Vulcan had been a member of the first X-Men team sent to rescue Cyclops and the original X-Men from Krakoa. His apparent death, as well as all knowledge of his existence, was erased from Cyclops' mind by Professor X. Cyclops is resentful towards Xavier after this, and demands that the powerless professor leave the Institute.
World War Hulk
The Hulk arrives at the Institute to attack Professor X for his involvement with the Illuminati. Cyclops uses a full force optic blast to stop the Hulk, refusing to let the Hulk take Professor Xavier, regardless of his own feelings towards his mentor regarding the truth about Krakoa.While Cyclops succeeds in holding back the Hulk briefly, the Hulk is able to walk towards him and clench his entire face, effectively containing the blast. After Hulk left when Mercury told him about the mutant race being near-extinct, Cyclops began to forgive Professor X while the wounded were being tended to.
Messiah Complex
Professor X detects the first new mutant since M-Day. The mutant registers so powerfully that it nearly destroys Cerebra. Cyclops leads a team to Alaska to investigate, but when the team arrives they find the town destroyed with nearly everyone killed. The team also finds many dead Marauders and Purifiers, and discover that a fight had been waged over possession of the mutant: a newborn baby. Cyclops sends out Wolverine, Nightcrawler, Angel, and Colossus to find former Acolytes in order to gain information on the Marauders.Xavier argues with Cyclops on this, demanding to know why Cyclops didn't inform him about the team. Cyclops makes it clear to Xavier that he doesn't need his permission to lead the X-Men. When Professor X continues to argue, Cyclops brings up Xavier's track record of morally dubious decisions. Cyclops calls in X-Factor to help with the situation, asking Rictor to infiltrate the Purifiers as he was de-powered after M-Day, as well as asking Madrox and Layla Miller to go see Forge.Upon discovering that Cable has taken the newborn mutant, Cyclops orders the reforming of X-Force with Wolverine leading the team. Their first mission is to hunt down Cable and retrieve the baby at any cost. Professor X confronts Cyclops on his leadership, questioning his decision to send a team of killers after his own son. Knowing that Xavier will continue to question his command, Cyclops has him expelled from the mansion. Cyclops later leads his team to help Wolverine fight the Reavers while they attempt to retrieve the baby from Cable. However, Cable manages to elude the X-Men. After finding the Marauders' hideout on Muir Island, Cyclops dispatches X-Force and Bishop to go there and retrieve the baby (whom the Marauders had captured).During the final battle, Cyclops sends the New X-Men up against the Marauders, believing that Sinister's forces will be caught off-guard by unfamiliar opponents. The students prove to be effective. Cyclops then confronts Cable, demanding he hand over the baby. Cable, with a gun pointed at his father, begs Cyclops to let him escape into the future with the baby so that she can make her own decisions instead of having them forced upon her. Cable gives the child to Cyclops, however, after Professor Xavier points out that the future of all mutant-kind is at stake and Cyclops, as leader of the X-Men, must speak for all of mutants.Cyclops holds the baby and realizes that she deserves the chance to make her own destiny. Cyclops gives the girl back to Cable, telling him to raise her in the future away from those who would use her for their own agendas. Cable teleports to the future, just as Bishop fires at him. The shot misses and hits Professor X in the head, apparently killing him. Cyclops takes out Bishop with a blast and as the X-Men all gather around Xavier's body, Cyclops declares them disbanded. Xavier's body then disappears.
Divided We Stand
It is later revealed that Cyclops didn't actually disband the X-Men, but rather made everyone take time off to recuperate themselves. Cyclops and Emma take a vacation to the Savage Land. They spend time with Ka-Zar and Shanna, but are soon called back to San Francisco by Angel. Once there, they see that all of San Francisco has been submerged in a psychic projection that resembles the 1960s.Emma uses her powers to help Cyclops and herself better blend in. They are successful in rescuing San Francisco from the source of the projection, a mutant calling herself the "Goddess". Sadie Sinclair, the mayor of San Francisco, offers to help the X-Men better establish themselves in the city. They establish a brand new headquarters, which they dub Graymalkin Industries, and become the city's resident superhero team.
Manifest Destiny
The X-Men find themselves dealing with an anti-mutant group known as the "Hellfire Cult", which is being lead by one of Emma's former pupils, Empath, and a mysterious red-headed dominatrix calling herself the "Red Queen". After an assault on the Hellfire Cult's base, Cyclops is seemingly seduced by Emma, who appears to be wearing the exact same outfit as the Red Queen. When Scott mentions this to Emma at a Dazzler concert she is confused.Scott then sees a familiar red-headed woman standing on the other side of the club. When Emma asks him what he saw, he cryptically tells her that he thinks his ex-wife Maddie may actually be alive. Cyclops then begins to behave more withdrawn and secretive. Emma begins to get worried, and also starts to notice odd behavior from both Wolverine and Archangel. When Emma decided she must confront Cyclops about this, he gives her permission to enter his mind.Inside, she finds a black box, which she is unable to open. Cyclops claims within the box are all the plans and secrets that he, as the X-Men's leader, has developed to maintain their survival. Emma seems unconvinced, but lets the matter rest for the moment. Karma arrives and informs Cyclops and Emma that the news has footage of the massacre that occurred during the events with the mutant baby, and that the baby's birth has been linked as the cause. As a result, a resurrected Graydon Creed and other previously dead foes begin pushing to outlaw mutant reproduction. The new anti-mutant propaganda causes an explosion of hate crimes on mutants and former mutants. Scott decides to open the doors of the X-Men's new base to all mutants that are in need of protection and sanctuary.
Utopia
Because of growing unrest among mutants, mass mutant riots begin to break out all over San Francisco. The mayor demands that the mutant "leader" Cyclops put a stop to all of this. Cyclops takes much, if not all, of the bad press. Emma appears to join Norman Osborn's Cabal, and leads his Dark X-Men. Cyclops sees Emma on television leading the Dark X-Men as they stop a mutant riot. After this, he goes to speak with Osborn at his base on Alcatraz Island. Osborn tells Cyclops he should surrender so as to put a stop to the mutant riots. Cyclops interrupts Osborn and tells him that he should surrender instead.Surprised, Norman asks Cyclops what he means. He tells Osborn that HAMMER should leave San Francisco, and that the X-Men can handle mutant issues. Osborn refuses, and Cyclops departs after telling him that he tried being diplomatic. Angered, Norman vows to personally kill Cyclops. It turns out Cyclops has had a master plan up his sleeve the entire time.He raises the remnants of Asteroid M from the ocean, making a "Utopia" for all mutants. Emma returns to Cyclops' side along with Namor (who she has convinced to join the X-Men) having been working as a double-agent. At night, while in bed, Cyclops and Emma try to reassure each other that there will be no more secrets between them. This goes poorly at first, but the lovers eventually reconcile and share all their secrets with each other.Osborn arrives on Utopia, attacking with the combined might of his Dark Avengers and Dark X-Men. Norman defeats Cyclops in personal combat, and appears ready to kill the mutant leader. However, this all turns out to be part of Cyclops' plan. News cameras swarm all over Osborn, as he soon realizes that his forces have been defeated by the X-Men thanks to Cyclops' superior strategy. Osborn is then forced to retreat, leaving Utopia. Cyclops speaks to the camera crews, announcing the autonomy of the mutant race and sovereignty of Utopia.
Nation X
Magneto arrives on Utopia, having regained his mutant powers with the help of the High Evolutionary. The "Master of Magnetism" proclaims his respect for Cyclops' achievement in uniting mutantkind. Professor X assaults Magneto telepathically, unwilling to believe that his "old friend" is sincere in his attempts to make peace with the X-Men. Cyclops orders Charles to stand down, and later cautiously accepts Magneto as an X-Man.Cyclops later accepts Professor X's help in telepathically linking him with Emma's mind, in an attempt to free her from the sliver of the Void which remained inside her after she defeated the Sentry. Inside Emma's mind, Cyclops finds a white room filled with various diamond figures, each representing a different aspect of her psyche. Emma's main consciousness approaches Cyclops, but as they begin discussing how to extract the Void all of the other aspects of Emma attack.Realizing that the figures are not actually a part of Emma's mind, Cyclops attacks back by using a mental version of his optic blast. The blast acts as a beacon to Emma, who finds Cyclops again. However, the Void has plans of its own and moves to possess Cyclops. Emma is ejected from the telepathic link and back into the physical world (now able to leave her diamond form), while Cyclops remains unconscious. Emma reveals that the Void has passed from her to Cyclops. Cyclops sits among the remains of the destroyed mansion, with a black mass hidden among the rubble.He is confronted by shadowy female figures who ask him why he didn't save them, and tell him he will never be the man he wants to be unless he lets the Void in. Emma appears on the scene and destroys the figures. She and Cyclops attempt to leave, but the Void grabs Cyclops and separates him from Emma. In the physical world Scott screams in pain and Professor X tells Psylocke that if Cyclops wakes up before Emma, the Void has taken over him and that she must kill him.In the meantime, the Void is still trying to convince Scott to let it take control. Scott responds by shooting it with his optic blast. He is then seen in a white room which Emma cannot enter. Since they are in Scott's mind, he is in control. He makes it so that Emma cannot enter the room, much to her dismay, and tells her to trust him. The door of the room closes in front of Emma, who wakes up.Psylocke is about to kill Scott, but Emma tells her to give him a chance. Scott sits on the ground with a black box in front of him, and the Void starts to engulf him. He holds up the box, and suddenly the Void is trapped inside. Cyclops tells the Void that he had been in a relationship with an extremely powerful telepath for years, and she taught him how to defend his mind. Scott wakes up to a relieved Emma, having trapped the Void in his mind.
Second Coming
Ever since Cable's departure into the future; Scott has been doing his best to protect him and Hope from danger while he awaits their return. Cyclops is shown to have enormous faith in the fact that Hope will not only return, but that she will be the savior of the mutant race. When he receives news that Cable and Hope may have returned, Cyclops sends his alpha team out while he coordinates their movements from Utopia. When X-Force is outed, he gets some backlash from Nightcrawler. As time goes on, Cyclops' tactics are being tested as some of the X-Men begin to question his leadership.With the X-Men suffering many injuries as well as two deaths (including Nightcrawler), Scott comes under fire with people questioning whether or not Hope is worth it. After Donald Pierce decimates all the X-Men's jets and the Blackbirds, Cyclops kills him with a powerful optic blast. They realize that Bastion is trying to prevent them from leaving. Suddenly, a red dome encapsulates all of San Francisco.The X-Men discover the center of the dome on the Golden Gate bridge. When the team arrives, they are shocked to find Nimrods exiting from the small sphere. It takes all of their efforts to destroy the Nimrods, with many injured. After regrouping, Cyclops leaves a team on the bridge in case more Nimrods come through. During a council meeting, Prodigy reveals he has calculated how many Nimrods are likely to come through the portal. He lost count at 170,000. Outside the dome, Avengers from New York have gathered in an attempt to take down the dome from the outside. Cyclops gives many of the X-Men jobs for what they should be doing around the area to prepare.It is decided that Cable will use his last time jump to take X-Force and Cypher into the future to stop the Nimrods at their source. Hope says goodbye to Nathan, her adoptive father and the only person she has in the world. After X-Force departs Cyclops, laments to Emma that it's a suicide mission and he has just sent the team, including his own son, to their deaths. Hope becomes furious, screaming that she hates Cyclops before running off. Cyclops notices that she was manifesting his glowing red eyes.The Nimrods emerge from the portal, and battle ensues. Eventually, Cypher manages to stop the Nimrods at their source. X-Force are unable to go through the portal, as it only works for non-organic beings. Cable sacrifices himself, finally letting the techno-organic virus take hold of his body. This allows him to hold the portal open while the rest of the team goes through. Cable dies with a smile on his face after seeing Hope one last time, his body seemingly exploding and leaving only his cybernetic left arm behind.With no time to grieve for Cable's death, the X-Men defend themselves against Bastion as he attacks with the remainder of his forces. Hope, distraught at all that has happened, attacks Bastion and her true powers manifest. She proves to be an Omega-level mutant, capable of mimicking the powers of all mutants in her vicinity. Hope easily defeats Bastion with assistance from Cyclops, and Wolverine delivers the killing blow to avenge the death of Nightcrawler. With Bastion's death, the dome falls and Hope is shown levitating in front of Cyclops and the X-Men like the Phoenix. The messiah of the mutant race has risen.
The Heroic Age
A funeral is held for Cable, with many of the X-Men and their allies in attendance. When Cyclops attempts to read the eulogy for his son, he breaks down into tears. Hope then delivers a eulogy herself on Nathan's life as a soldier, stating that he died fighting for what he believed in. Hope later expresses great interest in discovering her biological family. Cyclops goes to the Savage Land to get a work out away from the world, and is found by Steve Rogers.Steve tells Scott that it is time for the X-Men be recognized by the public for the heroes that they are. Steve has Cyclops receive a presidential medal for all he has accomplished as leader of the X-Men. After receiving the medal, Scott finds Hope sitting by the ocean and begins trying to work through her issues with him. He tosses his medal into the ocean and tells Hope that he won't control her life, and that he will allow her to seek out her biological family.Cannonball gives Cyclops a report of his team, telling him that the team is broken and that he cannot lead them. He says that the Hodge mission was a failure, because Karma lost her leg and Warlock was forced to kill sentient life. Cyclops tells Cannonball that if his team is broken, then he needs to fix it. Meanwhile, Emma witnesses Hope manifesting the Phoenix and rushes to tell Scott. With the commotion over this, Cyclops finds that Cerebra has located five new mutants across the globe. These are the Five Lights.
The Five Lights
Cyclops sends a team to each of the lights' locations, while Hope goes to Alaska to find out about her biological family. Cyclops and Wolverine work out the issues that have come up due to X-Force and the death of Nightcrawler. After meeting with her biological grandmother, Hope decides that she is ready to help the new mutants manifesting.The first mutant, Laurie, is in so much pain that she is about to kill herself. When Laurie dives off of a building, Hope jumps after her. Physical contact with Hope awakens Laurie's full potential, and her mutant ability of flight. Laurie pledges herself to Hope for saving her, and together they set off to find and activate the rest of the lights.
Schism
Cyclops, accompanied by Wolverine, delivers a speech at the United Nations where he reveals that he is aware of each country having a supply of sentinels. He asks that the world leaders dismantle all sentinels in their nations to better improve relations with the mutant race.Just then, Quentin Quire arrives to unleash a telepathic attack. Cyclops and Wolverine are left unaffected due to their psychic defenses, but the world leaders in the room begin shouting out embarrassing secrets about themselves on national television.After this, a battalion of sentinels are unleashed with orders to track down and detain a male mutant. Fitting this basic description, Cyclops and Wolverine are attacked, but are able to easily defeat the sentinels. Quentin addresses the world on television, relaying his ideology of mutant liberation against humanity. Later, the nations of the world begin to unleash their sentinels for fear of any more mutant attacks.Cyclops makes the call to place mutants on high alert, with Storm believing that they shouldn't cause panic. Cyclops stays pragmatic, stating that they must be cautious with so many people taking up arms against mutants. Wolverine becomes wary when Cyclops allows Idie to watch the newscast of the sentinels, but Cyclops feels that it is important for her to understand that the world fears and hates her for being born a mutant. The sentinels of various nations begin to malfunction.Later, Quentin arrives on Utopia seeking asylum. An enraged Wolverine demands that they hand Quentin over to Steve Rogers. Cyclops insists that they should deal with Quire themselves, further angering Wolverine. Meanwhile, Kade Kilgore, a psychotic child prodigy and billionaire, has been named the new "Black King" of the Hellfire Club. It turns out he is responsible for Quentin Quire's attack on the UN, and he plans to wipe out the mutant race for profit. Cyclops sends X-Men teams around the world to deal with the many sentinels.At the unveiling of a new mutant museum in San Francisco, Cyclops has sent his "A-team" consisting of Emma Frost, Magneto, Namor, Colossus, and Iceman to improve the public appearance of the X-Men and the mutant race in general. Cyclops watches from his command at Utopia, and Wolverine watches from a bar. Kade and his Hellfire team attack the museum, successfully incapacitating the entire team of X-Men utilizing their superior knowledge and advanced technology. Only young Idie is left unscathed.Cyclops and Wolverine both race to the museum. Idie gets into telepathic contact with them to reveal that she has remained unnoticed and that the Hellfire terrorists have a bomb. Wolverine urges Idie to escape, and that he can make it to the museum. Cyclops realizes neither he nor Wolverine will get there in time, and tells Idie do what she feels she must. Idie defeats the Hellfire soldiers and save the civilians before the bomb goes off. Cyclops and Wolverine arrive just in time to help the civilians to safety as the bomb explodes. Wolverine displays his anger to Cyclops for allowing Idie to take matters into her own hands, but Cyclops stands by his decision seeing that Idie saved all of the civilians.They both soon realize, however, that the bomb the Hellfire Club left was an electromagnetic device that was using the metal in the area to create a new kind of gigantic sentinel. Cyclops escorts Idie back to Utopia while Madison Jeffries, Dr. Nemesis, and Wolverine attempt to deal with the sentinel. Their efforts fail, however, and the sentinel makes its way towards Utopia. With most of the X-Men scattered around the globe, Cyclops is left alone to defend his nation. He realizes that this was all planned out, and blasts the sentinel. The sentinel keeps coming despite Cyclops' efforts, and he alerts everyone on Utopia to brace themselves for an attack.Hope comes to assist Cyclops, accompanied by her Five Lights and some of the Young X-Men. Cyclops rallies them together to fight the approaching sentinel, but Wolverine arrives and demands that they all be sent away due to their ages. Cyclops believes that, despite their youth, they are still capable of defending Utopia. Wolverine continues to argue with Cyclops, insisting that Utopia be evacuated instead. Hope and the others choose to remain and fight alongside Cyclops. This prompts Wolverine to arm 2000 pounds of plastic explosives, from his personal stash, in an attempt to force an evacuation and destroy the sentinel.The young mutants rush to alert everyone, while Cyclops stays behind to face Wolverine. The two X-Men argue about detonating the bombs, with both refusing to back down. Ultimately, this leads to a brutal fight over the remote to the explosives. All the while, the sentinel looms overhead trying to kill them both. The fight is broken up when Hope and the other students start fighting the sentinel.Cyclops and Wolverine put their differences aside and help defeat the sentinel. While Utopia is recovering from the attack, Wolverine reveals to Cyclops that he plans to leave Utopia, along with any X-Men that will come with him. Although he believes that Wolverine is making a mistake, Cyclops allows him to leave. Wolverine goes to Westchester, planning to start a new school for training young mutants. Kitty Pryde and Beast are among the faculty, while Idie and Quentin Quire are among the students. Cyclops and the X-Men that remain loyal to his cause, including Emma, Magneto, Namor, and Hope, remain on Utopia.
Regenesis
Cyclops forms a powerful group of X-Men that he dubs the "Extinction Team". The goal he sets for them is to prove that they are "Earth's Mightiest Heroes", changing public perception of mutants into something the world needs to survive. They will also act as a deterrent against attacks on mutants (including those at Wolverine's new school). The team consists of Storm, Emma Frost, Magneto, Namor, Colossus, Danger, Magik, and Hope Summers. Their first mission is to deal with the resurrected Mr. Sinister and his plans with the Dreaming Celestial.Sinister departs in the Celestial's head (altered to resemble his face) shortly after the team arrives on the scene, leaving them to fight with the many "micro-celestials" that it's body is disintegrating into. Magneto acts as a surrogate "nervous system" for the Celestial's body: piecing it back together, though he is exhausting himself by doing so. After losing a diamond arm in the battle, Emma is forced to remain in her diamond form, unable to use her telepathy. Meanwhile, Sinister flies the Celestial's head to San Francisco's Fine Arts museum to further his plan.Sinister utilizes the Celestial's cosmic power to release a massive amount of energy that reconstructs the museum into his own "Sinister World's-Fair", filled with clones of himself. Cyclops is contacted by Abigail Brand, who informs him that the Celestials are coming to Earth. As the team battles against Mr. Sinister's clones, he proposes a cease fire and invites them into the museum to speak with him. The team senses a trap and prepare themselves, with Emma and Hope devising a trump card. Sinister reveals his plan for the Celestials to wipe out humanity, with the mutant race fighting his new "Sinister" species for supremacy of Earth.Sinister telepathically takes control of the team, but Emma is immune in her diamond form. Using a code word, Emma frees Hope from Sinister's control and she shoots him through the head. Sinister predicted this would happen, and as the team regains control of their minds they realize Sinister exists as a hive mind through his clones. Danger takes down all of the Sinister clones inside the palace, and the team goes to face Sinister outside.Sinister reveals that he is using Cyclops' mind as a blueprint for his new species. Emma abandons her diamond form and, using her intimate knowledge of Cyclops' mind, psionically defeats Sinister. Sinister appears in a new body, revealing that he has adapted from the weaknesses of his previous form. The Dreaming Celestial's head returns to its body as Sinister levitates the museum away. Before shooting himself in the head, Sinister tells Scott that he will lose everything he cares about.Magneto summons the team as the Celestials land, and Cyclops calls out to them. He claims that his new team protect the planet and all of it's residents, including the Dreaming Celestial. The Celestials leave the planet without issue after the Dreaming Celestial points its finger to the sky in support of the X-Men. A number of awestruck civilians arrive on the scene. The crowd refrains from throwing bricks, shouting racial slurs or anything anti-mutant in nature. Cyclops' plan for ensuring mutant survival through fear appears to be working.
Avengers Vs. X-Men
The Phoenix Force is heading towards Earth, devouring entire planets in its path. The Avengers wish to stop it, fearing that it will destroy the Earth. Cyclops believes it to be a force of rebirth that will bond with the mutant messiah Hope Summers to restore the mutant population. Captain America arrives on Utopia, backed by a helicarrier full of Avengers, and demands that Cyclops allow him to take Hope into protective custody. Cyclops refuses, blasting Cap into the ocean. With this, the X-Men and the Avengers go to war over the fate of Hope and the Phoenix.While the two teams of heroes battle, Hope escapes from Utopia as she begins to manifest the powers of the Phoenix. Cyclops feigns defeat to the Avengers, escaping Utopia with his Extinction Team and other X-Men. The race is on to find Hope, who uses skills Cable taught her in order to hide her location. The X-Men and Avengers fight all across the globe as they search, with some of the faculty from the Jean Grey School joining Cyclops' ranks. Emma manages to finally locate Hope after reading Cap's mind.Hope has made her way to the Blue Area of the Moon, and is planning to become the host of the Phoenix in order to fulfill her destiny and bring about the rebirth of the mutant race. She has recruited Wolverine to help her, but he betrays their location to the Avengers in an attempt to protect her. Cyclops and his team arrive just after the Avengers, and a fierce fight ensues. During the battle, a beaten Thor falls from the sky, revealing that the Phoenix has arrived. It begins to bond with Hope, who struggles to control it's power. She begs Wolverine to kill her, as he had previously promised.Cyclops blasts Wolverine, unwilling to let Hope be killed before she can fulfill her destiny and save the mutant race. He declares his belief in her, and that the Avengers are impeding her destiny as the messiah of mutantkind.Iron Man uses a giant powered suit he designed with Hank Pym in an attempt to stop the Phoenix Force, attacking it just as it is bonding with Hope. The Phoenix is unexpectedly broken into five shards, causing Cyclops, Emma, Magik, Colossus, and Namor to become possessed. Cyclops is angered, declaring that the Avengers have interfered with the Phoenix's plan to gift Hope with it's power, and as a result the will of the Phoenix must be done by them.After effortlessly defeating the Avengers, the Phoenix Five take Hope back to Earth with them with the intention of preparing her for what is to come. The Phoenix Five, desiring to make Earth a better place for mutants, rebuild Utopia as a sprawling metropolis in the sky. Professor X visits and has a discussion with Cyclops, who proclaims to his mentor and father-figure that he has fulfilled Xavier's dream of a world where mutants and human can coexist in peace.Cyclops and the Phoenix Five use their new god-like powers in an attempt to bring world peace. They end starvation, provide unlimited energy sources, and outlaw warfare by declaring "Pax Utopia" before the United Nations. Later, while he is speaking with Hope on Utopia, Cyclops tempts her with the Phoenix as a means of questioning why she rejected it's power. He states that she is not deserving of the Phoenix, as a child like her could never understand what needs to be done.The Avengers, wary of the unchecked power the Phoenix Five possess, infiltrate Utopia on orders from the President in an attempt to capture Hope (who they believe is the key to stopping the Phoenix Force). They are faced with Cyclops and Emma, but escape due to the arrival of the Scarlet Witch. Hope agrees to leave with the Scarlet Witch and the Avengers, despite Cyclops' protests. A connection between the Scarlet Witch's powers and the Phoenix is revealed when Cyclops is harmed while attempting to stop her before she teleports away with Hope.Cyclops states that although the X-Men try to help people, mutants will always be hunted and ostracized by humanity. He says that the humans will always try and send their "heroes" to attack them, despite all the good that they have done. Cyclops declares that this will not be tolerated any longer, and simply says "No more Avengers." Making good on his word, Cyclops has all the Avengers systematically hunted down and imprisoned. Magik uses Limbo as a prison for the captured heroes..While hunting the Avengers, Magik encounters the Scarlet Witch. She nearly defeats Magik before Emma arrives and attacks. Hawkeye then attacks Emma so that the Avengers can escape, and is burnt nearly to death by her in retaliation. Cyclops chastises Emma for this, believing that they should not use lethal force to prove their point, and uses his powers to heal Hawkeye. While fighting the Avengers, the young mutant Transonic is captured and Namor is left shocked after he is attacked by the Scarlet Witch. Cyclops wishes to bide his time in rooting out the Avengers, which infuriates Namor. Emma then manipulates Namor by revealing to him that she has psychically tracked the Avengers to Wakanda, and that she hasn't told Scott.Namor invades Wakanda with an army of Atlanteans, seeking to destroy the Avengers once and for all. Magneto brings Namor's whereabouts to Cyclops' attention. Scott is angered by Namor's recklessness, and questions Emma as to what she knows about it. Emma dodges the question by simply stating that Namor is his own mutant, and that Scott was fooling himself if he thought otherwise. Cyclops orders the team to depart for Wakanda immediately, to Emma's displeasure.When they arrive, Namor is defeated by the power of the Scarlet Witch. Surprisingly, his share of the Phoenix Force leaves him and is then split amongst the remaining avatars. Xavier telepathically speaks with Scott, upset over what has happened. Cyclops asks him to join them, but Xavier refuses and asks Cyclops to stop what he is doing. He states that although he loves Scott, he will stop the Phoenix Five if he has to. Scott tells Xavier that he lost the right to tell him what to do, removing him from his mind. The team then silently observe the devastation Namor has caused.Cyclops meets with Emma in the Danakil Desert in Ethiopia (the most inhospitable place on Earth). Emma is very concerned about the Phoenix's power corrupting her, and states that part of her wishes to end the conflict with the Avengers by simply switching off their minds. Cyclops is worried that she is sounding like Namor, and that the Avengers are trying to paint them as villains.Emma reveals to him that she has reached into every mind on the planet, and has found Hope in the mystical city of K'un-Lun. Cyclops immediately flies away, unaware that Emma is begging for him to stop her as the Phoenix further corrupts her.Colossus and Magik both fall as they attempt to gain each other's power, due to manipulation by Spider-Man. This causes their portions of the Phoenix Force to be absorbed by Cyclops and Emma. Cyclops rips open the dimensional barrier between Earth and K'un-Lun, where he tells Hope that it is now time to come home. Cyclops battles with all the remaining Avengers, easily defeating them as he pursues Hope. Hope manages to attack Cyclops, sending him to the moon, after copying the Scarlet Witch's chaos magic and absorbing some of the Iron Fist's chi.Realizing he is in need of more power, Cyclops goes to find Emma as The Watcher observes. Scott returns to Utopia, but cannot bring himself to attack Emma. She knows that he is thinking about possibly taking her power, and begins to lose control as she talks about burning the world and remaking it in their image. This greatly concerns Cyclops, who feels they are falling. Xavier telepathically invades Cyclops' mind, forcing him into an illusion as the Avengers have him bound. Xavier attempts to shut him down, but Emma intervenes as they begin to fight off the combined forces of the Avengers and the X-Men.As the attacks get worse, and more people Cyclops thought he could trust appear fighting on the side of the Avengers, he grows desperate. In a psychic meeting with Emma, while their bodies' fight, Cyclops is told by a guilt-ridden Emma that she engaged in a psychic affair with Namor while he attacked Wakanda. She apologizes and tells Scott that she truly loves him, going on to say that she wouldn't care if the two of them burned the world around them, as a queen of ashes is still a queen. Realizing that they are losing touch with their humanity, Cyclops states he will finish things himself. He asks Emma to forgive him, defeating her and taking her half of the Phoenix.Now possessing the Phoenix's full power, Cyclops strikes down Xavier as he attempts to stop his surrogate son. With tears in his eyes, Cyclops despairingly shouts to Captain America that he forced him to this. He then makes the transformation into the "Dark Phoenix". Cyclops then go on a rampage, attempting to burn away the entire world and create a new one from the ashes for mutantkind to prosper. The Avengers and X-Men combine their efforts to stop him, but his power is too great. Wanda and Hope combine their powers to attack Scott, as he gains control for a brief moment and begs to be killed.Scott then sees a vision of Jean Grey, and she compels him to let go of the Phoenix. Wanda and Hope strike Cyclops with a final blow as he releases the power. Hope absorbs the Phoenix, using it to repair the damage Cyclops has done around the world. She combines her efforts with the Scarlet Witch, saying "No more Phoenix" as the entity disappears. Guilt-ridden over all that has happened, Scott chooses to accept full responsibility for everyone's actions despite the circumstances with the Phoenix.Imprisoned, Cyclops is informed by Beast that Hope harnessing the Phoenix has caused the rebirth of the mutant race. Scott is vindicated by this, admitting that while he is repentant for Xavier's death (and wishes he had died instead) and for all the damage he has caused, he would do it all again to bring mutants back. He is then placed in a ruby quartz prison by SHIELD, while his "Extinction Team" become renegades on the run from the Avengers. Magneto and Magik evade capture, but Emma is detained by the Avengers.Cyclops is later visited by Captain America. Scott reaffirms his wish to be the one held solely accountable for everything that happened, and that Cap should leave the rest of the X-Men alone. Cap confirms that new mutants have begun to appear across the globe, which Cyclops sees as a victory. This infuriates Cap, who accuses Cyclops of starting the war and endangering the planet. Cyclops is undeterred, however, believing that a "new age" will begin for both the Avengers and the X-Men.Cap confirms that Cyclops was right in at least one aspect: that the Avengers hadn't done enough to help mutantkind, which is now going to change. Cyclops is then left contemplating the nature of the Phoenix, and it's cycle of destruction and rebirth.
Avengers vs. X-Men: Consequences
Cyclops is transferred from his SHIELD prison cell to a private sector prison, which is testing new anti-mutant technology in the wake of the mutant resurgence. Believing that Cyclops may be able to convince the remaining members of the "Extinction Team" to come out of hiding, Captain America asks Wolverine to go speak to him. A reluctant Wolverine arrives, six-pack of beer in hand, to settle things with Cyclops. They discuss the death of Professor Xavier, which Cyclops still deeply regrets, and the path that Cyclops has chosen to take.Cyclops claims that he only did what he believed had to be done, and that Wolverine of all people should understand that. He then accuses Wolverine of nearly ruining everything by attempting to kill Hope, before stating that he now knows how Jean felt in a way that Wolverine will never understand. Enraged, Wolverine nearly stabs Cyclops, before realizing that is exactly what he wants.Cyclops admits his desire to become a martyr, and that it would be best for Wolverine to be the one to kill him. This revelation ruins Wolverine's desire to kill him, however. Wolverine attempts to convince Cyclops to help them bring in the remaining members of his X-Men, but leaves in anger when Cyclops asks to know where Emma and Hope are.While working in the machine shop Cyclops meets his cell neighbor, a young mutant prisoner named Jake whose power had just recently manifested. A trio of large, mutant-hating prisoners then approach, seemingly about to give Cyclops the martyrdom he seeks. However, when they refuse to leave Jake alone, Cyclops easily defeats all three in hand-to-hand combat.He later tells Jake about the Jean Grey School, and how they could help train him in the use of his new mutant power. Using metal filings gathered from the machine shop, Cyclops creates secret messages to communicate with Magneto. He asks Scott if he wishes to be broken out, but Scott refuses as he wants to remain a political prisoner rather than become a common criminal. Cyclops later accepts Tony Stark's request to run to some tests on him in the hopes of understanding the Phoenix better, only agreeing after Stark admits that he knew the Phoenix would create more mutants.After getting an X tattooed on his arm, Jake is stabbed by one of the mutant-hating prisoners Cyclops had previously beaten. Wolverine visits Cyclops' cell later to inform him of Jake's death. Logan attempts to talk Cyclops down, admitting that he believes Cyclops had never intended to kill Xavier and that that he'd secretly looked up to him as a role model alongside the Professor on how to be a better man. Cyclops is undeterred, however, choosing to continue on his new path. He contacts Magneto again, letting him know he is now ready to be freed.Magneto, Magik, and Danger stage a massive assault on the prison, freeing Cyclops as well as many of the other prisoners in the process. The trio of mutant-hating inmates are banished to Limbo by Magik. The prison warden, who Cyclops accuses of attempting to profit from mutant misery, has an X scarred across his face by Danger at Cyclops' request. When the Avengers arrive on scene to round up all of the escaped prisoners, Wolverine discovers that Cyclops has left a note for him with the disfigured warden.In the note, Cyclops states that the Jean Grey School now has his full blessing and that he knows Wolverine will do his best to teach mutants as Professor X had. He believes that Wolverine is the "better man" now, so he must fill the void by becoming the man who "does what need to be done" and protect mutantkind by any means necessary. Leading the remnants of the Extinction Team, Cyclops affirms his belief that they're still doing what the X-Men have always done: saving a world that fears and hates them.
Here Comes Yesterday
Free from imprisonment, Cyclops begins his quest for redemption and becomes the face of a new mutant revolution. Alongside Magik and Magneto, he creates a new Xavier Institute in what was once the Weapon X facility. While confronting a SHIELD prison transport to free Emma Frost, Cyclops and Magneto begin to experience trouble controlling their mutant powers and inadvertently decimate the entire transport. The freed Emma is furious with Cyclops for everything that happened with the Phoenix, blaming him for Xavier's death and her imprisonment by the humans.Cyclops claims that the Phoenix was to blame, and begs Emma to read his mind to see how sorry he is. However, Emma can no longer access her psychic powers, revealing that being exposed to the Phoenix has altered their mutations. The Phoenix Five are all experiencing drastic changes in their mutant powers, as is Magneto due to being attacked with the Phoenix's power by Cyclops. Cyclops swears to Emma that he will find a way to fix them as they escape before the police arrive on scene. Together, they set out on a mission to rescue and recruit new mutants.A young Australian woman named Eva Bell awakens her mutant power to control space and time after her overprotective brother gets in a brawl, creating a block-wide time sphere that freezes everyone in it for over twenty hours. Cyclops, Emma, and Magneto arrive and offer to help her. The Australian police and federal guard are ready to take Eva into custody as the sphere goes down, but Cyclops and his team fight back to protect her. Cyclops and Magik then go to rescue a mutant named Christopher from police interrogation in Michigan.Despite resurrecting a dead friend with his mutant power, Christopher is being detained by anti-mutant police against his will. Freeing Christopher, Cyclops declares his team's goals of mutant freedom on a security camera. As they witness Cyclops' exploits on the news, Kitty Pryde, Storm, Iceman, and Beast become unnerved. They worry that Cyclops' "revolution" will bring unwanted attention to the Jean Grey School, and fear that a confrontation with him may spark a mutant civil war.An offhand comment made by Iceman gives Beast the idea to travel back in time, where he recruits the original five X-Men (Cyclops, Iceman, Angel, Beast, and Marvel Girl) in the hopes that they can show Cyclops the error of his ways.While dealing with his "broken" mutant power, Cyclops is confronted by Magneto. Erik tells that Scott that he must own up to what happened with the Phoenix, and that he cannot deflect for his hand in Xavier's death. He then states that if Cyclops truly wishes to redeem himself, he must find a way to fix their powers. Cyclops and Magneto later go to a pro-mutant rally to recruit a new mutant shapeshifter named Benjamin, only to be confronted by the time-displaced original X-Men.Staring down the his past self, Cyclops begins to question what he sees. He thinks maybe it is some telepath controlling his perception of what is real and what isn't, possibly Emma or even Professor Xavier. Cyclops comes to the realization that Emma would never do this to him, and that Xavier is truly dead.Upon noticing Jean his memories of her come flooding back. Jean's telepathy starts acting up as she hears all his thoughts, and in a moment of desperation she telekinetically blasts him away. This knocks Cyclops' visor off, and his out of control optic blasts destroy the immediate area. Young Cyclops attempts to stop him and the two trade blasts, with the former being quickly overwhelmed. The rest of the Original X-Men swarm in to attack as Magneto yells for Ilyana to teleport them away.As they return back to the Weapon X facility, Cyclops storms off to regain his composure. Emma seeks him out and he reluctantly discusses what happened. They come to the conclusion out only Hank McCoy would have the technology and knowledge bring the original X-Men to the present. Emma conjectures that since Beast can't kill Scott in retaliation for Xavier's death, he will instead punish him.Cyclops later returns to recruit Benjamin into his new school, as the latter has been expelled from college due to his mutation. Cyclops and his group return once again to the Jean Grey institute. Cyclops comes with an offer of new students to his side, and to explain himself for the events that transpired during his possession of the Phoenix Force, and his current course of intentions about training the students at the new Xavier institute. He defends himself to the school en masse that what happened was not his fault and that he would never deliberately murder Xavier.While the convincing doesn't go so well for him as too many of the older X-Men believe he should still turn himself in, he does state he will help protect the school and that he bears no ill will towards any of them and that he is actually disappointed in some of them. He leaves soon after his statements but returns shortly, giving the students some time to think.
The New Mutant Revolution
After a new mutant in San Diego named Fabio Medina has his power emerge as someone attempts to rob him. The police attempt to detain him, but Cyclops and his team arrive to protect their fellow mutant. They easily deal with the police as Eva, now under the alias of Tempus, and Magneto disarm them. A battalion of new sentinels shows up to hunt the revolutionaries, and partway into the brief scuffle Cyclops unleashes his newly altered optic blast.The devastating blast rips the parking lot and sentinels asunder, causing the immediate area to crater in and damage buildings. After the blast, Cyclops falls due to fatigue as the team head back to the Xavier Institute with their new recruit. Scott and Emma have a heart-to-heart conversation about their current situation and both decide to remain close but not together for the sake of the students. The two join in with the students and rest of the team to discuss what is going on in the mutant world including the sentinels attack and rebirth of the population, as well as go over the schematics of the new school.The team decides to go with Eva to visit her mother, so they teleport to Australia. Not long after arriving, the Avengers assemble on their location. Captain America attempts to arrest Cyclops, under the accusation of murdering Charles Xavier. Cyclops and Emma call out the Avengers for being equally as guilty as they are in they are for the events of the war, including Xavier's death. Cyclops declares the X-Men's goals, refusing to allow his people to be victimized any longer, and refuses to back down. The Avengers prepare to attack, and in the heat of the moment Tempus freezes them in a temporal bubble.Cyclops proclaims to the crowd of gathered people that the X-Men will protect all mutants from danger, along with the humans that support them. He warns, however, that those who would oppose mutant rights will be their enemy. When the X-Men teleport back to their school, they realize someone revealed their destination to the Avengers. Magneto admits it was him, revealing that he went to S.H.I.E.L.D. under the guise of being a traitor wanting to take down Cyclops. His intent was to root out the creators of the new sentinels. Cyclops shows disgust with the plan for the events that just transpired at first, but eventually realizes Magneto has a good idea.Cyclops tells the students to remain at the new institute while the main team departs. Magik then teleports the team to the Jean Grey School, where Cyclops intends to recruit new X-Men. Cyclops gives his explanation of his side of things and tells the X-Men that he would rather they kill him right then and there than continue to live with the thought that they think he would intentionally kill Xavier; the man who was a father to him. Cyclops also opens up a window of opportunity for students from the Jean Grey Institute to join his new Xavier Institute to prepare for their futures.He leaves to give them some time and upon returning to his school, he sees the new students have gotten stuck in the very realistic simulations of the Danger Room. In a random moment, Magik begins screaming in pain due to her powers finally showing her side-effects. She briefly disappears and returns in a burst of flames before running off. Scott leaves once again to the Jean Grey School and returns with the new students: the Stepford Cuckoos and the younger version of Angel.Magik once again begins writhing in pain and secludes herself from the team. Cyclops talks to her about what is happening with her. After the talk, Cyclops and Magik rejoin the team, but as soon as they do, Magik loses control once agains as the team is teleported into Limbo with Magik having transformed into Darkchilde. Dormammu has forcibly brought the X-Men into Limbo so he can kill Magik and the X-Men for being her friends in order to spite her. Cyclops commands the team to get back as he takes off his visor cowl and lets loose a massive optic blast that surprisingly hurts the extra-dimensional being, but it has little lasting effect and he collapses after. Dormammu summons his underlings to attack the X-Men, but the Stepford's telepathically turn the new students' fear into bravery and with Cyclops now back on his feet, the rest of the team begins fighting off Dormammu's minions.Cyclops and the team continues the charge. Cyclops manages to do the most damage as he lets his optic blasts loose, destroying many of the mindless ones. Illyana manages to save the group by casting them out of Limbo and then absorbs the entire dimension into her being. The team points out to Scott that he seems worse off than the rest in control and Scott apologizes to the students and team as they were not ready for what happened and that they must train. After the events of going to Limbo and fighting Dormammu, Fabio can't handle the pressure and Scott and Emma escort him home. Cyclops would later talk about Magneto about their current position with their powers and where they stand with each other, which only ended up with them coming to better standing of each other.Cyclops and the rest of the team are watching and coaching the new member of the team, David Bond, on his ability to control vehicles. This time being a massive plane. After receiving word of Fabio's kidnapping at the hands of S.H.I.E.L.D., Cyclops and his team invade the helicarrier where he is held in. They dispatch the S.H.I.E.L.D agents, save Fabio, and confront Dazzler about what happened. Cyclops tries to convince Dazzler to join but she declines and Cyclops coaxes David, now dubbed Hijack, to try and see the limit of his powers and to control the helicarrier.Cyclops and Emma are training the new students but the two have a bit of an argument. The two watch as Illyana and Eva train and are amazed when Eva does a new trick with her powers. The team watches on the news as pro-Cyclops supporters gather and start to address the issues they deem unfair for making Cyclops a wanted man. Cyclops and the team make their presence known and show up at the rally, where Cyclops tells the supporters to not blame the other good guys such as the Avengers and Fantastic Four. During his speech, the X-Men are attacked by a blockbuster sentinel.Cyclops appears to be vaporized by the sentinel's blast while demanding it to tell him who sent him. The team looks on in shock at his apparent death, but luckily Magik saves him just in time by teleporting him out of the way. He rallies the team to attack, and while trying his own optic blasts, he fires a weak shot. The more the X-Men attack it, the more the sentinel seems to adapt. In desperation and anger while trying to protect a woman, Cyclops does all he can to protect himself and the people around him, including his supporters. and unleashes a massive optic blast that does little damage to the adaptive sentinel. Eventually, Magneto arrives and does final attack that looks like it puts the sentinel out of commission. The sentinel looks ready to explode, but in his rage, Scott charges after it, demanding it tell him who sent it. Emma manages to save him before an explosion does occur, but only because the assailant pulled it back.Cyclops is seen pushing Benjamin quite hard in a training exercise, even going as far as attacking him and letting him get a free shot on Cyclops himself. After Emma helps Benjamin discover the exact nature of his abilities, Scott fully accepts him on the team. Scott sends the new mutants on a test to see how they handle being put in unpredictable situations. David breaks the rule of no cellphones, and this results in SHIELD tracking them. Cyclops kicks him off the team for his behavior.
Battle of the Atom
During a battle with a newly discovered mutant, Kitty Pryde and her team consisting of the original five X-Men, save for Warren, are encountered by a band of sentinels. When the situation turns dire for them, Cyclops and his team show up where Cyclops lays waste to a few of the attacking sentinels. After the quick rescue, the two X-Men factions join forces and defeat the remaining sentinels. One of the sentinel heads remains active and kills the younger Cyclops, and because of this, the older Cyclops ceases to exist. Thanks to Triage, the revival of the younger Scott Summers also returns the main one back to reality. After the battle, the groups part ways, and back at the Uncanny X-Men's base, the team is reviewing the footage of what happened, but Christopher runs off due to the traumatic experience that happened, and Scott goes to calm him down.The young Jean and Scott search out the Uncanny X-Men. Scott agrees to help them, but eventually a fight ensues with the future X-Men team. More teams continue to show up for the final battle. Amidst all of this, S.H.I.E.L.D.'s payload of anti-mutant weaponry is activated. Cyclops and the X-Men manage to stop it. Future Jean Grey eventually snaps and Cyclops and Wolverine try their best to hold her off, but the mutant is too strong but she ends up exploding. Scott and Wolverine continue to argue about the whole mess, but eventually part ways, albeit briefly, as Kitty Pryde leaves the Jean Grey Institute to join up with Cyclops' team.
X-Men vs S.H.I.E.L.D.
When a new mutant is detected, Cyclops and his team check it out. It is a trap and the team is attacked by a large sentinel that spouts smaller sentinels. Cyclops runs point and tries to cause a distraction with an optic blast, but his powers begin to shut off, as well as the other members of his team. Magik saves the day with a spell and Cyclops comes to conclusion that SHIELD is indeed attacking them or someone else is using SHIELD. Either way the scenario, Cyclops declares war. Cyclops uses the Cuckoos to telepathically speak with Maria Hill to find out what she knows. He doesn't necessarily trust the information she has and says it may have been implanted. Scott and the rest of the team come to the conclusion that the person attacking them is using Cerebro to spread false alerts or track the team when a new mutant is activated. The only people that know would be Xavier, Magneto, or Beast. Scott and Magik take a trip to the Jean Grey Institute to confront Beast to talk with him about the sentinel attacks, hoping it isn't him, but all of a sudden Scott's powers act up and he unleashes a blast. Scott yells it isn't him attacking. Magik tries her luck but her powers also start acting up as she enters her demonic form. Storm manages to take them both out. SHIELD and the mysterious orchestrater of the events make their move. Beast in the meantime manages to figure out what is wrong with both Scott and Magik and who is the cause of all this.With the mysterious attacker using SHIELD tech and sentinels to assault the Jean Grey school, Cyclops and Magik are still indisposed until woken up by Beast. Hijack makes his surprise return and overpowers the hacker's control on the helicarriers and sentinels. When Cyclops is about to lead a defense, Beast takes him to where the assailant is. Beast reveals to Cyclops that the reason he couldn't control his powers was because he was with infected nanotech sentinels. Beast turns them off and Cyclops gains his control back. When they meet the assailant, Cyclops attacks him and it is revealed to be a sickly Dark Beast. Dark Beast says he attacked because he hates him, and with that he dies, but leaves a detonating helicarrier in his wake. Cyclops calls in Hijack and Magik, and Hijack stops the detonation. Cyclops and Beast leave and talk with Maria Hill about what has happened and that it happened on her watch with her tech and equipment. With that Cyclops takes his team and leaves.
The Last Will and Testament of Charles Xavier
Cyclops reminisces of the events where he killed Xavier. He attempts to talk with Eva about how she got stuck in a time bubble, but she tells him off and leaves. Cyclops also goes and apologizes to Hijack, and the two reconcile with Hijack being allowed back on the team. Cyclops is then next seen with the JGS staff in his base, telling him they need to leave and go to Xavier's will reading. The main NXS staff leave and go to the Jean Grey Institute. She-Hulk is in charge of the will reading and they learn Xavier is married to Mystique and now they must perform his task of what he called his darkest secret. Cyclops and the rest of the X-Men listen to Xavier's message about how years ago, he discovered a young mutant of frightening power by the name of Matthew Malloy.When Xavier went to visit the boy, he lashed out with a type of dimensional energy and the child would somehow block most of Xavier's telepathy. Xavier would slowly push and manipulate his way into the child's mind so that he could help control him, for if Magneto were to get him, his use as a weapon could be catastrophic, and if he were to fail being taken in by Xavier, then he would destroy any chances at peace mutants had. Xavier would explain that once inside his mind, he placed several blocks, made the boy forget what happened, what happened to his parents, and suppressed his mutant abilities, and virtually lobotomized him. Xavier knew this would go against everything he taught the X-Men that no mutant shall be left behind. Scott would resort to calling Xavier a hypocrite. Out of anger and shock by Scott's outburst, Iceman would tell Scott to just kill Xavier again, resulting in Bobby getting blasted. The brief fight was broken up and the majority of the message was played. Xavier's last mission for them would be for Scott and Wolverine to get together a team to find Michael, and have the strongest telepath they have to reinforce the mental blocks Xavier placed on him.Cyclops would storm out of the Jean Grey Institute in a fit of anger, denying doing Xavier's final request and talking about how Xavier lied to them all while teaching them something different. The X-Men try and convince him, but only Emma seems to get through, telling him Xavier would do it for Scott. Cyclops reluctantly goes on the mission. During the mission, the X-Men join up with SHIELD and they all try to discuss what to do with Matthew. Rachel Grey tries to perform a similar approach with Xavier, but upon Matthew discovering they aren't Xavier, he destroys the helicarrier they are on. Cyclops and the rest of the group get sent into different directions, with him landing at the New Xavier Institute. He has a brief anxiety attack and would recover shortly after with a new plan. Scott would have Magik teleport him to Matthew where Scott simply asks him to talk.Scott has Magik teleport him and Matthew a top of a mountain away from a population. Cyclops begins to tell Matthew about what Xavier did for Scott, but that he may not right after all. Cyclops tells him that no matter what the X-Men have done, people have still hated them for just existing. Scott tells Matthew he will help him repay his debt for killing the innocent lives on accident, but he will also help him with his powers and that they must rise up and take their place in this world. Matthew loses control again and Magik teleports Scott away, but Scott asks her to put him back. Magik tells him he is reminding her of the Brotherhood of Evil Mutants, but Scott says he must save him. He goes back to talk with Matthew when he is calm but Magneto shows up and tells Scott he has gone too far.Magneto argues with Scott about what he is doing with Malloy. Cyclops reveals some of what Magneto has done in the past, and Malloy ends up teleporting Magneto away. Matthew feels he doesn't belong on this world and Cyclops tries to reason with him. Malloy ends up telling Scott he doesn't know if Malloy is good for this world. Magik comes with the Eye of Agamotto to reveal to Malloy if he is going to help or be what they fear. But before they can do that, SHIELD helicarriers come and blow them all up.Scott is brought back to life when Eva goes back in time with Xavier and they prevent Matthew's parents from ever becoming a couple. The Will is read and Xavier leaves his inheritance to Scott. Scott leaves for a moment and Eva talks with him about what actually happened and she blames him for everything that happened on that day before she fixed it. Scott kicks her out of the school and Eva leaves. Scott comes back in and signs everything over to Storm, and he also asks her to take in his students.Cyclops pushes away his team except for Alex who stays. At the end, Cyclops goes to Washington D.C. where he holds a rally with every single mutant on the planet on the steps of congress saying that this is the mutant revolution; all mutants are united and no one is hurting each other.
Time Runs Out
Cyclops is visited by Sunspot where he wants to meet with Beast. Scott informs Roberto that he has a Phoenix Egg and it is about time he got into the game. Cyclops is visited once more by Roberto and Cannonball where they hope he will help them save the day. Cyclops says he no longer sees saving the day as a solution and he reveals his Phoenix Egg while stating the name of the game is resurrection.
Secret Wars
With the incursion of Earth 616 and Earth 1610 happening, the two universes battle it out for survival. Cyclops arrives with his Phoenix egg and Nation X sentinels as they battle the opposing forces. Ultimate Reed Richards, the Maker, sends out his robotic swarm to fight the 616 heroes but Cyclops hatches the Phoenix Egg and he becomes host of the Phoenix Force once more, but this time it is more controlled as Cyclops attacks the Maker's creations. The life raft for the survival of the incursion is activated and Reed Richards has Cyclops teleported aboard. Stephen Strange of the Battleworld opens the raft and explains the survivors have been in there for 8 years in Battleworld time despite them feeling like they've been in it for only a matter of hours. And Strange is shocked to see that Cyclops has become the Phoenix once again.The survivors and the Cabal, who also survived the incursion, attack Doctor Doom in his own throne room. With Cyclops now having Phoenix' powers, he comes close to defeating Doctor Doom. However, Doom claims to be God and quickly grabs Cyclops by his throat and snaps it, claiming 'the dream is over'. This would however not be the end of Cyclops, since reality was eventually restored to before the incursions happened.
Death of X
With reality restored after Secret Wars to what it once was, for the most part, Cyclops was alive and well again. However, after Secret Wars, the effects of the released Terrigen Mists from the terrigen bomb had mixed with Earth's atmosphere and had started causing catastrophic results on the mutant race. Mutants where dying and becoming sterilized because of the mists. Cyclops himself seemed ill but discovers more of his mutant brethren and allies have died and he helps bury them. He decides to declare war and broadcasts a message that the Terrigen mists are harmful to mutants and might be harmful to humans. This causes a mass panic as Cyclops himself prepares for war with the Inhumans. Cyclops gets the old mutant known as Alchemy to negate one of the clouds. Cyclops also stands up to the Inhumans and prepares an optic blast at Medusa and Black Bolt only to be struck down by a sonic scream from the Inhuman King and killed. He was given a eulogy by his fellow X-Men. It is revealed that Cyclops died long before his death at the hands of Black Bolt and that it was Emma Frost using a psychic image of him to give his lackluster death at the hands of the mist meaning and purpose to other mutants.
All-New X-Men
Following the death of the adult Cyclops and the increasing fallout over the conflict with the Inhumans, many of the mutants go into hiding. Despite this, the original five time-displaced X-Men (as well as new members Wolverine, Oya and Genesis) refuse to stay in the shadows, and set out to forge a new path and a new destiny. However, the teen Cyclops has gone off the grid, and tries to bring down a group of extremists known as the Ghosts of Cyclops on his own. After a brief public clash, Scott tracks the Ghost to a college outside of the city, where he is attacked and ultimately arrested by the police. The use of his powers allows his former teammates to track him down. After this incident, the teen Scott has an epiphany, and decides to rejoin his friends so that he can redeem the name "Cyclops" and make up for the actions of his adult counterpart.During the Inhumans vs. X-Men storyline, Cyclops takes part in the mutant assault on New Attilan after it is discovered that the Terrigen cloud will soon dissipate into the atmosphere, rendering the entire planet lethal to mutant life. During the fight, he briefly faces off against the young Inhuman hero Inferno before being attacked by Medusa. He is rescued from the Inhuman queen by Magneto, and is with the other X-Men who return to Muir Island. However, after being possessed by Mosaic, Scott learns that his adult counterpart had already died before the confrontation with Black Bolt, and that it was actually Emma Frost using his image who was to blame. Realizing he was not to blame for the conflict with the Inhumans, Scott is absolved of his guilt, and finally feels free to move forward with his life.
Champions and Phoenix Resurrection
During this period, the teen Cyclops continues with the X-Men. Looking for a new path in life, he seeks out the Champions, a group of teenage superheroes whose ranks include Ms. Marvel, Miles Morales, Nova, the Totally Awesome Hulk and Viv Vision. However, he briefly ends up in a fight with the team after mistakenly thinking that the Hulk is attacking them. Though the Hulk and Nova oppose Scott's inclusion due to the actions of his adult self, Miles, Ms. Marvel and Viv support him. Cyclops remains with the Champions for a number of adventures, including their team-up with the Avengers against the High Evolutionary.A resurrected adult Cyclops shows up on the doorstep of the newly resurrected Jean Grey with flowers, seemingly having no memory of his time as an X-Man. The real Cyclops was actually resurrected by the Phoenix in an attempt to bait the real Jean Grey, but Jean refused the Phoenix. In doing so, Scott died once again but not before the two embraced and professed their love for each other one more time.Shortly after this, the teen Cyclops resigns from the Champions due to having to join the X-Men on a major mission.
Extermination
Cyclops has officially returned to the land of the living after the young version of Cable has returned the original five time displaced X-Men back to their own timeline, telling Scott it is time to make his return.
Resurrection
The younger version of Cable went to a man that Cyclops in teenage years by the name of Paul Douek from an angry professor Tavin that attacked the school he was fired from with a giant robot. Young Cable asked Paul, who is a brilliant scientist and one of Tony Stark's brightest employees, a few years before Cyclops' death to make a smaller version of the Phoenix Cage. After Cyclops' first death they come and take his body, and Paul Douek inserts the pill sized Phoenix Cage into his heart. When Cyclops is briefly resurrected by the Phoenix Force in an attempt to use him to coerce Jean, a part of the force is trapped in the Cage, and Cyclops dies again. Some time later, Cyclops blasts out of his grave and meets up with Kid Cable and explains what happened and that Scott is needed and didn't deserve the death he received. Cyclops dons his old Astonishing outfit, and the two head to Paul Douek's house where Tavin is attacking him in an act of revenge and once again save him. As a result, Cyclops also now has all of the memories of his teenage counterpart as well.Cable and Scott head to a beach and Cyclops explains he was wrong for his actions over the last few years and that he set his species over everyone, becoming the very thing he swore to fight against. He and Cable now set out on a mission to rebuild the X-Men after Nate Grey's attack against the original team to set things right.
This is Forever
After his resurrection, Scott treks out on his own in an attempt to find out what happened to X-Men and restore his team. He saves Blindfold from a group of thugs attacking her. She warns him not to do something, and later he runs to various people like Ben Urich, Maddrox and the Morlocks looking for Blindfold. He finds her dead and heads to a rally for Senator Allen where they push against mutants. He ends up calling out the senator but gets attacked by the angry mob. He loses his sunglasses and Captain America saves him. They argues with Rogers in front of national television and tells them he will be at the now decimated Xavier Institute and he wants to broadcast a message to the world. He calls for the other X-Men and remaining mutants, but is ambushed by the Reavers, Purifiers, and Sapien League. Wolverine appears to help him and they defeat all the invading forces before heading off.Wolverine discovers the whereabouts of some remaining mutants. Cyclops and him invade the compound and come across new breed of sentinel where they are using mutants as power-sources in the hopes they would kill each other off. Cyclops and Logan saved the remaining mutants after the sacrifice of Guido protecting them from a bomb. Havok levels the compound before Scott pulls him into Magik’s portal and they leave.Cyclops and his group of X-Men form a list of targets that they need to capture and deal with. They run into Multiple Man and experimented dupes of him that tell Scott and his team of Dark Beast’s location. They find, defeat and capture Dark Beast. Havok wakes Scott up to talk and the news shows the Mutant Liberation Front is committing acts in the X-Men’s name, and on the team are Hope and Banshee.Cyclops and Wolverine have a meeting with Valerie Cooper in hopes of striking a deal with her. Scott and his X-Men take care of group of Chernayan rebels that attempted a coup the previous year. Upon their defeat, Scott gives the now land to the Morlocks so they may escape the sewers. Scott and his team head to a rally to stop the Mutant Liberation Front. In an attempt to talk Hope down, she shoots him in the eye, losing it in the process. Almost dying from the injury, Dark Beast saves him.Scott is shown helping Captain America by rounding rogue mutants. After doing so and a discussion with Alex, Scott officially steps down as the leader of the X-Men, stating in the times they are in it, it is better they vote on their decisions. Rahne leaves after talking with him, and the team goes and stops Magneto and the Brotherhood of Evil Mutants. Magneto, revealed to be Joseph is swiftly slain by the returning Kwannon, and the team looks on as Dani screams out Rahne is dead. Cyclops and his team host a funeral for Rahne. When Logan returns after missing the funeral, he and Logan get into a fight until broken up by Cain Marko, and when he mentions Emma Frost, the whole questions that who that is.Cyclops and his team find the Marauders and fight them in an attempt to capture. Chamber unleashes a blast in anger, killing them, but is stabbed himself and dies. When the X-Men return to their bar, it is set on fire and they are under attack by Mr. Sinister. They manage to defeat him and find a new home thanks to Shan. Scott talks with Alex about Emma before going off to call Captain America, who unbeknownst to him, is Mystique.Cyclops and his team are battling the Upstarts upon looking for the Nasty Boys due to concern. As the team returns home, Dark Beast points out that Scott gave him a sample of the vaccine that has been injected into children that haven't had their mutations kick in yet, and Beast made an anti-vaccine. Scott and his team are met by Captain America and Dr. Nemesis, who tells him that he hasn't seen Scott since the rally. They tell Cyclops a few children have been put into comas due to their anti-vaccine. They take Nemesis back to their base and confront Dark Beast about what he has done. He reveals to them that Sinister telepathically implanted some suggestions to steer them to this course of action, where Magik kills him. Cyclops is then psychically contacted by Emma Frost, where she gives him his memories back and needs his help. The X-Men rescue Emma Frost, and in doing so end up fighting Callahan's forces. Amidst the fight, the soldiers stop as Emma, having Sinister perform surgery to remove the bomb in her head, wipes the world's memories of mutantkind. Sometime passes, and the humans don't even acknowledge the mutant's existence. The only one who remembers is Callahan, and he attacks with his own army of sentinels, and Havok and Multiple Man sacrifice themselves during the fight, and the rest of the X-Men team return to end Callahan's plan. Cyclops and Jean reunite with a kiss, and upon the victory, the X-Men restore the human's memories.
House of X
It appears Scott and few other mutants burst out of these pods, gathering around Xavier, after being "rebirthed". Five months pass and mutantkind lives on the sovereign nation of Krakoa where they establish their own language and finally a home. Cyclops steps out of a portal after Sabretooth is captured by the Fantastic Four. Cyclops states he will take Victor, but the Fantastic Four decline. Cyclops humors them and says he will get him another time then, but before leaving, tells them Krakoa has a place for their son Franklin.Xavier assigns Scott the task of forming a team to go and stop a group of rogue scientists called Orchis from creating a new Master Mold called a Mother Mold. Scott and his team fly to the space station orbiting the Sun, but upon landing, their ship is destroyed by a bomb going off.After recovering Angel's corpse who died during the explosion alongside Husk, Cyclops is able to assure the intelligence team back on Krakoa that the his team would still be able to complete the mission via Jean's telepathy. He then assigns himself and the majority of his team to individually disengage the Mother Mold's control collars that keep it from falling into the Sun while Jean and M stay behind to maintain contact with Earth. After realizing that Mystique had failed her own assignment, Scott is forced to allow and order Wolverine and Nightcrawler to sacrifice themselves in order to destroy the final control collar. After regaining telepathic contact with Jean, Scott reassures her that he would still be able to meet her and help each other escape the station before he is shot down and incapacitated by Omega Sentinel. Scott is able to apologize for failing to keep his promise to Jean before he is executed by the grief stricken Doctor Alia Gregor.Cyclops and the rest of the deceased team of mutants are resurrected by a group of called the Five. The process involves Goldballs producing a gold ball, which turns out they were eggs. Proteus turns the eggs viable. The eggs are injected with the preserved DNA of the mutant and Elixir then kickstarts the cellular growth process. Tempus matures the body and Hope ensures it all happens. Upon the hatching, Xavier uses Cerebro to implant Scott and the rest of the team‘s essences and memories into their new bodies, thus successfully resurrecting them.Cyclops and his team take out an ORCHIS base. He heads back to his new home, a Krakoa biosphere inhabited by the Summers-Grey families and Wolverine. Corsair comes to visit and the family come to visit for dinner, where Scott gives him a seed to act as a portal to come visit whenever he wants. Scott takes Rachel and Cable on a mission to a mysterious island that Krakoa is heading towards to uncover why. They encounter and accidentally start fighting a mysterious being capable of summoning various creatures, but soon halt the fight when Krakoa and the mystery island merge together.The Savage Land gateway of Krakoa becomes unresponsive, resulting in Krakoa itself feeling pain. Scott is sent out with Emma and Sebastian Shaw to discover the cause. The section is invaded by Hordeculture, a group elderly, radical botanists with the intent of restoring the planet to it was committing mass genoicide of the human race. Due to the expansion of Krakoa, their plans have been foiled. With their anti-mutant equipment and preying on Scott's morals, they manage to take advantage of him and Shaw, before they leave when Emma confronts them.Cyclops attends a World Economic Forum as security to Xavier, Magneto and Apocalypse where he is sent with Gorgon to dispatch a strike team posed to circle in on the mutant leaders during the discussions.During a raid on Orchis to free mutant children, the X-Men accidentally free Serafina, a member of the Children of the Vault. Upon initial failure of capturing her before she returned to the Vault, Cyclops leads a team to get a smaller squad consisting of Darwin, Synch, and X-23 to get in the vault themselves. After successfully achieving their mission with getting into the Vault and as time passes, Cyclops questions his decision on the mission.The day of Crucible is upon the isle of Krakoa, where a mutant turned human due to the Scarlet Witch will die to be reborn. Scott seeks guidance on the matter and ventures to find Nightcrawler for words of wisdom, as they watch the event go down with Melody Guthrie being struck down by Apoclypse and reborn as a mutant once more.The New Mutants team returns to Earth but they bring a King Egg, which the Brood hunt down and invade Krakoa. Cyclops leads the charge with Magik as they fend off the first wave of Brood with some of the other mutants. Cyclops is told to get the egg off world and he tells Havok and Gabriel to fire up the jet where they head to a Shi’ar space gate. Cyclops and his crew team up with some of Shi’ar as the Brood still chase them. They crash land on a nearby planet and are attempting to fight off the swarm coming after the king egg, only for the swarm to stop. Broo broke the egg and drinks some of the contents, now becoming leader of the Brood, adding their ranks now to the mutant nation.After the events of X of Swords, Scott stares off at the Arakko Point with his kids as they watch the island of Arakko emerge from the external gate. While talking Xavier and Magneto, he and Jean decline two open seats on the Quiet Council. Scott and her state they feel they need to represent the X-Men in a way that doesn’t have them being told what to do and how to think, but he is still a captain to Krakoa and will come if needed. Scott decides to put up an election and vote who will be on his and Jean’s team.Cyclops, Jean and Storm receive a distress call from Deathbird of the Shi’ar Empire, explaining Xandra has been kidnapped. The trio of X-Men travel to Chandilar, Throneworld of the Shi’ar. They discover a Stygian disguised as a guard and learn the location of Xandra. Cyclops and the team head to the catacombs where they find the heretics holding Xandra captive. Amidst the battle, Cyclops is rendered unconscious, before eventually coming to when the battle is over.
X of Swords
Cable teleports to the Summer Family house on the moon, screaming for his mom and dad. He explains to Scott and Jean that he and Rachel were psionically invaded by a mysterious woman who sent an image they are supposed to find. He shows Scott and Jean the image and Scott knows what it is. He takes them to the orbital space station, S.W.O.R.D., where Cable reignites the core, turning the abandoned station back on. Cyclops and Jean confront the Quiet Council about contacting Cable and Scott’s plan. He decides to go to Arakko, save everyone, and close the gates after. He then leaves with Jean with Emma telling the Cuckoos to meet up with him. Scott communicates with Illyana via telepathy from Jean and the sisters, asking her to open the gate. When she does, the entire S.W.O.R.D station descends where the rest of the mutants deploy from it to fight. Scott joins the fray. They grab Cable and teleport to the station once again to charge up an energy blast. With rejoining Apocalypse, Saturnyne demands a trade of prisoners, and with Apocalypse deciding to pick Arakko itself, the war is over and the mutants return home.
Reign of X
After the Hellfire Gala a new team of Krakoa's X-Men was elected, consisting of Cyclops, Jean Grey, Polaris, Synch, Rogue, Sunfire, and Laura Kinney as their Wolverine. Cyclops is outside their new base, a park they created called Seneca Gardens, with a massive tree holding up various rooms dubbed the Treehouse. Ben Urich arrives to interview Cyclops before Scott heads back up to the Treehouse. He's giving Polaris the tour of their new home when an alien mech lands in New York. Cyclops and his team attempt to fight it, but it lets out a massive telepathic barrage. Due to a plan from Synch, Forge and Polaris, the X-Men make their own robotic suit out of various parts of metal around the city, Cyclops lets loose a massive optic blast from his part of the robot, sending it reeling, before they ultimately defeat it.Jean gets a psionic message from Lola, Kansas is being attacked. Cyclops heads the team there where they face the Black Death, an annihilation wave. After a close battle, the team manages to destroy all the creatures, and the town thanks them by throwing a celebratory feast.The X-Men encounter the High Evolutionary in Vietnam where he plans on releasing a virus that will sterilize all of humanity. The X-Men fight off his daughter, Luminous, and Evolutionary Guards, but the fight stops when he asks for a drop of Synch’s blood and Synch obliges as long as it stops the battle. The X-Men get information on who sent the Mind Reaver and Annihilation Wave as an enemy on Gamesworld known as Cordyceps Jones. Cyclops believes with the lead it is best to split the team and further the mission to cover more ground.Cyclops and the X-Men travel to Mexico to fight the Reavers, as they were hired to disrupt political elections. They defeat the mercenaries and allow the elections to continue. They battle more of the High Evolutionaries creations. As the X-Men are home, they do a food drive to help out the less fortunate citizens in the area using Krakoan supplies. Ben Urich approaches Scott and the two go for a walk so Urich can interview Scott. Ben brings up the X-Men have mastered resurrection as Cable’s grave is empty at Westchester. He asks Cyclops how they do it before heading off on his own, telling him he will give him a day to think about any information he wants to share.Cyclops stands before the Quiet Council about taking a new member on his team known as Captain Krakoa. Scott refusing to do so, but the council votes to go forward with the motion. Back at the Tree House, a vigil is being held in memory of Cyclops with Captain Krakoa there stating he is here to make sure nothing like this happens again. He enters the Tree House and takes off his outfit, revealing himself to be Scott. Scott leave and heads to the Subways to call Ben Urich to try and discuss some things with him but Urich says he never met Scott. Cyclops hangs up the phone and sits in silence on the subway floor.It is revealed that Cyclops was publicly killed while fighting a group of aliens when one took a baby hostage and threw it. Cyclops throws himself in harms way to save the baby before one of the beasts slices his neck open. A mysterious man disguised disguised as a paramedic finds him, saying his carotid isn’t fully sliced before doing so himself, thus killing Scott. He is resurrected on Krakoa and is given the Captain Krakoa outfit and gear from Forge.MODOK attacks a cruise liner, testing out a new virus called Project Amy that activates the fight or flight response, resulting in the infected to become feral. Cyclops activates the Captain Krakoa suit and helps pull victims out of the water. He intercepts an escaping MODOK, and punches him into the ship. He invaded MODOK’s mind and asks why he is doing this, but not liking MODOK’s explanation he warns him to make restitutions for what he has done otherwise they will find him. Synch asks to chat with Scott and admits he’s the one that wiped Ben Urich’s mind, but gives Scott his notebook, revealing Ben thought the X-Men were miracles. Everett questions about leaving the X-Men but Scott tells him he’s done when he says he is.Cyclops and Synch track down Dr. Stasis, the Orchis member who killed him. They find out he is another Sinister but he manages to escape. Scott and Synch meet with Ben Urich where Scott comes clean about mutants having mastered resurrection, but that it only works for mutants. He is later seen with the team, no longer having to use his Captain Krakoa suit, defeating the Mole Man.Forge and Cyclops investigate the Vault again for Scott to discover Forge has contained the vault in a giant Krakoan dome with the Children of the Vault trapped in stasis pods in dream like states. Havok is added to the team via request by Forge and he and Scott get into an argument over Forge going in alone. Alex punches Scott in a rage, causing his visor to fly off and an optic blast hitting the dome, breaking Perro out of his stasis pod. Scott and the X-Men manage to subdue him and return him back to an incapacitated state and in a new pod.With Firestar now on the team, Cyclops joins with her in the field to take down Whirlwind before regrouping with the rest of the X-Men to defeat old sentinels.A pop up clinic ran by Orchis is in Chicago takes a mutant to shut off his X-gene. In his moment of fear, he tries to escape but Cyclops, Forge and Firestar come to rescue him. They are attacked by a Sentinel Zero that is using an old Wolverine skeleton as its chassis. Cyclops blasts it and Firestar uses a massive flame attack to incinerate the rest of the foe, leaving only the skeleton to remain, as the team has saved the mutant and the day. Cyclops is called into Forge’s lab where Forge asks him how many times has Wolverine died and they haven’t recovered his skeleton.Feilong of Orchis overtook Stark Unlimited and using Iron Man’s patents, they built a new Stark Sentinel and programmed it with mutant hunting capabilities. Upon discovering and attacking a mutant in New York, Cyclops and the team leapt into action. They called in for backup and were almost defeated, but Magik used her teleportation disks on the mutant to cut into pieces. Cyclops would return to Krakoa and meet with Emma, where she tells him of the news of Kamala Khan having just died.Gameworld sends out a distress call as Pogg Ur-Pogg is attacking. Cyclops and the X-Men go to stop him. Jean and Scott have a private psychic meeting about Cyclops not stepping foot on Arakko and Jean asks why, herself having created the planet. He says it’s an invitation to exile with how the humans are fighting against the mutants once more. 
A.X.E. Judgement Day
Krakoa is being attacked by the Hex, an evil sect of Eternals, as the mutants have resurrection technology. Cyclops and the team hold off the invasion, but are confronted by the Celestial that was the Avengers base, whom declares that the mutants will be judged. After stopping another plot from the Eternals, Cyclops himself confronts the Celestial and says the only one who can judge him is Jean and perhaps a scolding from his friends. With that said the Celestial approves of him as Cyclops takes his leave.The Brood Versus the Marvel UniverseWith Broo having consumed the King’s Egg, the Brood have begun attacking the Marvel Universe. The X-Men receive a distress call from Corsair, and they go to investigate. While the rest of the team holds off an attack from the Brood horde, Cyclops, Talon, and Synch go to look for Corsair and find him having been impregnated by the Brood. Cyclops holds off any attacking aliens as Synch and Talon save Corsair by removing the parasite, as Cyclops and the team take him to regroup with the rest of the team with him saying he was the bait for the trap they are in.Cyclops and the X-Men rescue a bunch of survivors on a refugee planetoid from the Brood. It is revealed that the rampage of the Brood was caused by Nightmare severing many of them from their hivemind in an attempt to get revenge on the X-Men. The survivors that Cyclops and his team picked up were all secretly infected as they turn and attack the X-Men. Synch manages to send all the infected refugees into space where they perish. Cyclops becomes irate and threatens to commit genocide on the Brood, but is stopped by Jean and Broo. He tells Broo to get all the ones under his control he can, but he goes off and kills the rogue ones.
Fall of X
 Cyclops is kidnapped by Dr. Stasis and is being held hostage. Kate sneaks into where Cyclops is being held captive by ORCHIS and discovers he’s been into a living bomb of sorts before leaving. Firestar, having posed as a traitor to the X-Men, gets into the ORCHIS base and sneaks her way to Cyclops to apologize to him and that Juggernaut needed their help, and for him to not lose hope. 
Contest of Chaos
Cyclops wakes up in a random Icelandic village all alone until he meets Captain Marvel there. The two try to discuss what is going on but a strange energy of chaos magic is causing weird things to happen like random boards flying and hitting them, pieces of concrete cracking around them, and most of all, an urge to fight. They see a lone fish and think they must grab it, but as Scott tries to be the first to get to it, Carol attacks him. Scott tries to fight back but his attacks just charge Carol up. He removes his visor and inhibitions and goes all out, removing his visor for one giant optic blast. This forces Captain Marvel to go into her Binary form. He declares to her he gave her the power to fight back whatever is controlling them. Carol in a fit of anger concedes the win to Cyclops as he now joins Agatha Harkness’ new Darkhold.