Film
X-Men
Cyclops is featured as a main character in the live-action X-Men film, played by James Marsden. In the movie, he is the leader of the X-Men, and frequently clashes with the new recruit Wolverine. He is dating Jean Grey, and is shown to be uncomfortable with Wolverine's advances towards her. In the final battle, he defeats Sabretooth.
X2: X-Men United
James Marsden reprised his role for the sequel, X2. Cyclops is kidnapped along with the Professor near the start of the movie, and is subsequently brainwashed by William Stryker. He engages in an intense battle with Jean before she is able to defeat him and bring him back to his senses, with Scott tearfully telling Jean he couldn't control himself. At the end of the film, Cyclops mourns Jean after she sacrifices her life to save the X-Men from an oncoming flood.Also, Cyclops' name is listed in William Stryker's files on Lady Deathstrike's computer.
X-Men: The Last Stand
Cyclops has a much smaller role in the third movie, X-Men: The Last Stand, and is shown disheveled and depressed in the years following Jean's death. While out riding his motorcycle, Cyclops is confronted by Jean, who has now been reborn as the Phoenix. Cyclops passionately embraces Jean and expresses joy at her return, only to be quickly and unceremoniously killed off-screen, with Wolverine only finding his glasses at the scene of the murder.Cyclops' fate was highly controversial among the fans, with the filmmakers later admitting that his death was the result of James Marsden leaving the franchise for the ill-fated Superman Returns movie.
X-Men Origins: Wolverine
A young version of Cyclops appears in X-Men Origins: Wolverine, portrayed by Tim Pocock. In the movie, he is kidnapped by Sabretooth and forcibly inducted into the Weapon X program, before being released by Wolverine and rescued by Charles Xavier. The film was not well received by critics or fans, and has since been retconned out of the series' continuity.
X-Men: First Class
In X-Men: First Class, a young boy in red sunglasses can briefly be seen when a young Charles Xavier uses Cerebro for the first time. Some claim that the child is meant to be Cyclops.Havok is featured as a main character in the movie, portrayed by Lucas Till. It is not stated as to whether or not Cyclops is his brother, though producer Bryan Singer confirmed that the two boys are related in a way that makes sense in the timeline of the films.
X-Men: Days of Future Past
James Marsden makes a surprise cameo in the finale of X-Men: Days of Future Past, reprising his role from so many years ago. In the movie, Wolverine successfully changes history after traveling back in time to 1973 and convincing a young Charles Xavier to stop Mystique from killing Bolivar Trask. As a result of Mystique sparing Trask and never becoming an outright supervillain, the timeline is altered so that the events of The Last Stand never occurred. In the new present, Wolverine finds both Scott and Jean alive and as teachers in the Xavier Institute, with Scott once again acting standoffish after seeing Wolverine attempting to embrace Jean. Despite his behavior, Wolverine expresses joy at seeing Scott again after so many years.In interviews, writer Simon Kinberg and producer Lauren Shuler Donner claimed that Days of Future Past was meant as an apology to those who were upset by the deaths of Cyclops and Jean, as well as the generally poor quality of X-Men: The Last Stand.
X-Men: Apocalypse
In X-Men: Apocalypse a teenage Cyclops is portrayed by Tye Sheridan. This incarnation of Cyclops is the younger brother of Havok, Alex Summer instead of being the older brother. Cyclops' powers awaken and he is brought to the Xavier Institute by Havok and he must team up with his fellow mutants to stop Apocalypse.Sheridan would reprise his role in Dark Phoenix, the final Fox X-Men movie.

Animation
Spider-Man and his Amazing Friends
Cyclops appeared in two episodes of the series, voiced by George DiCenzo and Neil Ross.
X-Men: The Animated Series
Cyclops is the leader of the X-Men and is in a relationship with Jean Grey. He discovered that he is a son of Corsair. He also fought his brother Alex (Havok) during an X-Men mission to save Polaris from the X-Factor. The X-Men mistakenly believed that X-Factor were her kidnappers. Scott and Alex don't know that they are brothers, even though their powers have no effect on each other, and don't get the opportunity to learn the truth. He was voiced by Norm Spencer, who reprised his role in the Spider-Man: The Animated Series episode "The Mutant Problem."
Pryde of the X-Men
Cyclops appeared in Pryde of the X-Men, a pilot episode for a TV show that was never picked up. He was voiced by Michael Bell.
X-Men: Evolution
A teenage version of Cyclops is a main character in the show and the leader of the team. Like in the comics, he has a crush on Jean and throughout the series attempts to strike up a relationship with her. He was voiced by Kirby Morrow.
The Super Hero Squad Show
Cyclops appeared in the episode "Mayhem at the Mutant Academy," voiced by Carlos Alazarqui.
Wolverine and the X-Men
Cyclops is an experienced member of the X-Men, and had a long-term relationship with Jean Grey. Both Jean and Professor X went missing after a mysterious attack on the mansion. With the mansion razed to the ground and the X-Men disbanded, Scott struggled to find Jean on his own. After an unsuccessful year of searching, he ended up living in a run-down apartment. He didn't shave, and sat around watching the TV news all day, desperate for any sign of Jean's whereabouts. This was where Wolverine found him. The two had fought over something in the past, which Jean had insisted that he apologize to Logan for.After a year Cyclops appeared to be just as aggressive towards Wolverine. So much so that when Logan approached him to rejoin the X-Men, Cyclops blasted him through a wall and out into the street. Cyclops finally relented and joined after he heard the news that Emma Frost had used Cerebro to locate the Professor. Cyclops remained hopeful that she would also be able to locate Jean in a similar way, but she claimed that she was unable to.However, Cyclops joined the team and aided in the raid on Magneto's Genosha to retrieve the Professor. Once the Professor's body had been returned to the mansion, he appeared as a telepathic projection in front of the X-Men. The Professor was telepathically contacting them from 20 years in the future, and asked that the X-Men endeavor to prevent the Days of Future Past-style future from occurring. Cyclops was visibly shocked when the Professor asked Wolverine to lead the X-Men instead of him.Since then his obsession to find Jean Grey drove Cyclops to confront the X-Men's old enemies, the Marauders. He attacked, defeated, and kidnapped Harpoon out on the street. The other X-Men didn't share his belief that Harpoon could lead him to Sinister, and therefore to Jean. However, Emma Frost confirmed that she telepathically probed Harpoon's mind, thus revealing the whereabouts of all the other Marauders. Consequently, Cyclops went on a rampage, openly using his mutant powers in public and violently destroying Sinister's laboratory. He was overwhelmed by the many duplicates of Jamie Madrox, but was eventually saved by the other X-Men.He is later more relaxed, to the point that he did not change into his X-Men uniform when Rogue told him about the Brotherhood's attack. He was still in his civilian clothes when the attack begun, and had his ruby quartz glasses knocked off. Toad spat adhesive slime to make the glasses stick to the ceiling, and began to goad Cyclops over his lack of control. However, he then opened his eyes to unleash the full force of his powers straight through the mansion. He disabled various members of the Brotherhood this way, but then covered up his eyes with his arms until Logan returned his ruby quart glasses. Cyclops remains obsessively loyal and desperate to find Jean Grey. So much so that he appears oblivious to Emma Frost, who continues to look at him longingly from afar.The cards are switched when Emma finally finds Jean, and they attempt to run off back to the mansion. However, Emma betrays the team when they get there, and takes off with Jean. She is revealed to be the White Queen of the Hellfire Club. Emma tries desperately to explain to Jean that the Phoenix will destroy her if she does not allow the Hellfire Club to help her. She later betrays Jean too when she sneaks into her mind and attempts to break the walls created by Xavier, to allow the Phoenix Form to enter. The walls are broken, and Jean wakes up. Scott then appears, and they have a three way showdown.Cyclops in turn betrays Emma for Jean, expressing what a horrid woman she is before leaving with Jean. Later on, Jean witnesses that the only way to get rid of the Phoenix is to allow it to reside in her. Scott stops the Phoenix by shooting it with his optic blasts. However, it comes back to take over Jean, and he once again tries to keep it away. At the nick of time Emma appears and jumps in front of the Phoenix who was en-route to killing Scott and possessing Jean. In the end Emma asks Scott to forgive her before she bursts into thousands of diamond shards, releasing the Phoenix. Scott and Jean are then reunited as the series ends.Nolan North provided the voice of Cyclops.
Marvel Anime: X-Men
Cyclops is once again the leader of the X-Men and a major character. At the start of the show is he shown mourning Jean's death, but is forced to return to his role as a hero when the U-Men begin abducting mutant teenagers. He is voiced by Scott Porter in the English dub and Toshiyuki Morikawa in the original Japanese version.
Marvel Disk Wars: The Avengers
Cyclops makes a cameo appearance in the first episode as one of the superheroes at Captain America's press conference.

Video Games
The Uncanny X-Men (1989)
Cyclops was a major character in the NES version of the game.
X-Men: Arcade (1992)
Cyclops was a playable character in the game where the player had to fight Magneto.
Spider-Man/X-Men: Arcade (1992)
He is a playable character in this game and has two stages. His boss is Master Mold.
Capcom series (1994-2000)
Cyclops is a playable character in the series of Japanese fighting games from Capcom, starting with X-Men: Children of the Atom (1994). He subsequently returned in X-Men vs. Street Fighter (1996), Marvel Super Heroes vs. Street Fighter (1997), Marvel Vs. Capcom: Clash of Super Heroes (1998), and Marvel vs. Capcom 2: New Age of Heroes (2000).In each of the games, he sports his Jim Lee-designed costume from the '90s comics and animated series. He was voiced by Norman Spencer, his voice actor from the cartoon, throughout the series.
Mutant Academy series (2000-2002)
Cyclops is a playable character in this fighting game series, which was a spiritual successor of sorts to Capcom games. He appears in X-Men: Mutant Academy (2000) X-Men: Mutant Academy 2 (2001) and X-Men: Next Dimension (2002).He was voiced by Ray Landry in Mutant Academy 2 and by Tim Harrison in Next Dimension. In the latter game, he sported his New X-Men uniform that was designed by Frank Quitely.
X-Men Legends (2004)
He is voiced by Robin Atkin Downes. He is the second character to become playable (after Wolverine) during the game's first stage.
X-Men Legends II: Rise of Apocalypse (2005)
He is voiced by Josh Keaton. He is one of the initial playable characters in the first stage of the game alongside Magneto, Wolverine, and Storm.
Marvel: Ultimate Alliance (2006)
Cyclops is voiced by Robin Atkin Downes. He first appears in a cut scene with Colossus, Hawkeye, and Hulk trying to stop Doctor Doom, where he is killed. He later appears in Doom's castle, now resurrected as an evil version of himself referred to as "Dark Cyclops," fighting alongside an evil version of Psylocke. Cyclops was later introduced as a playable character along with Hawkeye, Hulk, and Nightcrawler in the "Heroes Pack" DLC for Xbox 360. Cyclops has unique conversations with Jean Grey, Dark Colossus, and Dark Cyclops.
Marvel: Ultimate Alliance 2 (2009)
Voiced by Zach Hanks, Cyclops appears as a system exclusive playable character for PSP, PS2, and Wii.
X-Men Destiny (2011)
Cyclops appears in the game as a non-playable character. The player will take control of one of three new mutants and decide their fate. Cyclops is depicted as the leader of the X-Men alongside Emma Frost after Professor X's death.
Marvel: Avengers Alliance (2012)
Cyclops is an unlockable team member, costing 15 Command Points. He is a Tactician hero, possessing balanced stats and gaining a bonus turn after attacking Blasters. His abilities are Optic Blast, Exploit Weakness, Evasive Maneuvers, and Mega Optic Blast,and also has a chance of providing a morale boost to allies that take damage.
Marvel Heroes (2012)
Cyclops is a playable character, his default appearance being his Astonishing X-Men costume.
Lego Marvel Super Heroes (2013)
Cyclops is a playable character in the Lego Marvel Super Heroes video game. He is unlocked upon completion of a mission in story mode.
Contest of Champions
Cyclops is a playable character in the mobile Marvel game, Contest of Champions. 
Marvel Ultimate Alliance 3: The Black Order
Cyclops appears in the third Ultimate Alliance game, voiced again by Scott Porter. He initially appeared as an NPC who helped out the players during the Brotherhood's attack on the Xavier Institute, but was later made playable as a free DLC character.

Board Games
Marvel Legendary
Cyclops is a playable character in the base game of Upper Deck's Marvel Legendary.

Live
Universal Orlando Resort
Cyclops appears as a costumed character in the Super Hero Island portion of the Universal Orlando Resort from Universal Studios.
Marvel Universe Live
Cyclops appeared in the first iteration of the Marvel Universe Live arena show.

Merchandise
Lego
Cyclops has appeared in a Lego kit.
Bowen Designs
Statues
Dark House
Statues
Kotobukiya
Statues
Toy Biz
Toy Biz released the Jim Lee style Cyclops Figure for X-Men Classics line. Toy Biz released a Cyclops figure for Marvel Legends line of figures as part of Sentinel series. They also released a Variant in X-Factor costume.
Diamond
Diamond released a Cyclops figure for Marvel Select line.
Hasbro
When Hasbro started producing new line of Marvel figures called Marvel Universe, they released 4 Cyclops figures for Marvel Universe line. One being released as part of Secret Wars Comic Pack that came with the Hulk. Another was released as part of Marvel's Greatest Battles Comic Pack that came with Dark Phoenix. Third Cyclops figure was released as part of Marvel's X-Men First Class Comic Pack that came with Marvel Girl. Last Cyclops figure released for Marvel Universe line was released in Jim Lee style of Cyclops. When Hasbro took over Marvel Legends, they released Astonishing Cyclops figure for Brood Queen Build-A-Figure wave. Hasbro released Astonishing Cyclops figure for Marvel Legends line as part of Signature Series. Cyclops was featured in Hasbro's 12-inch Marvel Legends Icons line. Hasbro released a movie Cyclops figure as part of a two-pack with Colossus. Hasbro released a Cyclops figure as part of Build-A-Figure Puck wave for Marvel Legends line. Hasbro released the Marvel Now Cyclops figure as part of Build-A-Figure Jubilee wave for Marvel Legends line and was released as Toys R Us exclusive. Hasbro released a Marvel Legends Cyclops figure in his Classic outfit as part of All-New X-Men Box Set and was released as Toys R Us exclusive. Hasbro released a Cyclops figure for Marvel Infinite Series line. Cyclops was included as part of the Marvel Legends Warlock series from Hasbro.