
Childhood's End
Scott Summers is the eldest son of USAF test pilot Major Christopher Summers and his wife, Katherine Anne. He was born and raised in Anchorage, Alaska, alongside his younger brother, Alex. When Scott was 12 years old, his family was flying home from a vacation when their private plane was attacked by a Shi'ar spacecraft. The attack destroyed all but one of their parachutes, which Katherine strapped to Scott while making him hold Alex. Katherine and Chris said their final goodbyes, pushing their boys out of the plane with the hope that they would survive. The plane exploded, presumably killing Scott's parents and causing the parachute to catch fire.Scott's mutant optic blasts manifested for the first time, and he used them to slow their descent, while shielding Alex from the landing with his own body. Though the boys survived, Scott suffered a head injury upon landing. This head injury caused Scott a slight amount of brain damage, affecting the portion of his brain that controlled his optic blasts. The brothers were hospitalized, both suffering from traumatic amnesia regarding the incident. They caught the attention of the villainous geneticist Mr. Sinister, who harbored an obsession for the Summers family.Sinister ran an orphanage, the State Home for Foundlings, in Omaha, Nebraska, under the guise of "Michael Milbury." Knowing of Scott's mutant power, and believing that he had more potential than his brother, Sinister had Alex adopted to separate the two, rendering Scott emotionally vulnerable. One night, Scott awoke and accidentally destroyed the roof of the hospital with his power. Witnessing this, Sinister put Scott in a year-long coma. Upon recovering, Scott was placed in Sinister's orphanage and subjected to torturous experiments.Sinister placed mental blocks on Scott and took on the role of the orphan bully Nate, or "Lefty," to torment him. He even murdered Scott's potential foster parents to keep him trapped at the orphanage. Sinister would ultimately fail in breaking Scott, however. As he matured, Scott began suffering severe headaches and eyestrain as a result of his mutation. He was taken to an eye specialist in Washington, D.C. Through trial and error, the optometrist Nathan Masters (Sinister under another alias) found that ruby quartz was the only substance that both restrained Scott's optic blasts, while also easing the vision problems he suffered. He outfitted Scott with a pair of special ruby quartz glasses, which the young mutant would come to rely on for the rest of his life.
The First X-Man
When he was fifteen years old, Scott ran away from the orphanage after his power emerged in public. His mutant metabolism reached a critical point, and he released an uncontrollable optic blast that accidentally demolished a construction crane. The crane fell toward a crowd of bystanders, and Scott quickly used another blast to destroy the debris and save them. However, they feared his unusual ability and formed an angry mob. Scott escaped the crowd by fleeing on a freight train. He was then found by a mutant criminal named Jack Winters, who became his foster father.The physically abusive Jack wanted Scott to help him break into a nuclear power plant, where Jack's mutant abilities were triggered by radioactive material. Scott only agreed to help and fight off the guards because he knew that Jack would kill them if he didn't. Professor Charles Xavier had been tracking Scott with the help of the FBI, intervening to save him. Defeating Jack with Scott's aid, Xavier offered the boy the opportunity to become his first student at the Xavier School for Gifted Youngsters.Scott accepted the offer so Xavier could teach him how to control his mutant ability. Adopting the code name "Cyclops," he became the first X-Man. Cyclops's code name originated from the specialized ruby quartz battle visor Professor X designed to help him control his destructive optic blasts. Cyclops never managed to gain full control of his power, but he finally had the means to use it with confidence.He soon met his new teammates, other mutants his age. Cyclops bonded very well with the group, who gave him the nickname "Slim" Summers due to his thin build. They formed the original five X-Men. Cyclops was gifted with the role of field leader by Professor X, and over the years, they formed a strong father-son bond. He would eventually become Xavier's most prized student, chosen to carry on his legacy for mutants.