It is a pretty good bet that almost any show that features adults and teens interacting in an academic environment will eventually explore a romantic relationship between a teacher and a student. The basis for such a relationship — if it's actually a romance, and not just a Sextra Credit ["https://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Main/SextraCredit"] arrangement — might be the student's adoration and respect toward the teacher, the teacher's protective and caring instincts toward the student, or both. While the illicit, forbidden, and most often scandalous nature of these relationships can be mined for angst in-universe, they usually don't cause real-life issues because the actors themselves are generally all above the age of consent thanks to Dawson Casting. But even if the student is eighteen or in college, this sort of extracurricular activity would still be considered a massive breach of professional ethics in most of the world, and in some jurisdictions is illegal regardless of age under certain circumstances (for instance, some high school teachers have been charged for having relationships with students even if those relationships didn't begin until after the student turned eighteen and the teacher was only a few years older). And even where it isn't illegal, such an affair is usually socially unacceptable enough to cost a teacher or professor their job forever if discovered.
There will usually be different levels of moral endorsement of the relationship, depending on the ages and genders ["https://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Main/DoubleStandard"] of the participants. As far as age goes, whether the student is above the age of consent is the critical factor, and after that the larger the age gap, the less acceptable a relationship will be seen. For gender, relationships between male teachers and male students are condemned the most harshly. When a male teacher and a female student are together it results in the teacher being viewed as a pervert and sometimes the student being slut shamed. When it's the other way around, a female teacher with a male or even a female student is taken far less seriously. An even more outrageous double standard is that emphasis is often placed on how attractive said female teacher is — the more attractive said teacher, the more acceptable the relationship is. That said, the trope in fiction probably will involve a Hot Teacher, if only for fanservice purposes.
An author might attempt to make this relationship less squicky ["https://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Main/Squick"] by having the student fulfill the Wise Beyond Their Years trope, by keeping things to Courtly Love only, or by making both participants older — a graduate or returning adult student falling in love with their professor is less likely to cause moral outrage than a high school student doing the same thing due to both participants being adults, though the professional ethics of the situation remain the same.
The relationship may be initiated by a Fille Fatale ["https://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Main/FilleFatale"]. A subtrope of Unequal Pairing, and also frequently overlaps with Power Dynamics Kink. Compare Mrs. Robinson. See Likes Older Men, Likes Older Women, and Stacy's Mom for young people lusting after older people in general, Precocious Crush for a more innocent variant, Age-Gap Romance for when there's a significant age difference between them, Inherently Attractive Profession when the teacher position is part of the appeal, and Mentor Ship, when fans ship a mentor and their protegee. Can lead to I Will Wait for You if the teacher decides to wait until their pupil has graduated to get together with them. There's a version specific to magic users called Merlin and Nimue, which takes its cue from Arthurian Legend where Merlin formed such a pair with several women. Teacher/Parent Romance occurs when a teacher falls for their student's parent.
This group of tropes is among The Oldest Ones in the Book ["https://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Main/TheOldestOnesInTheBook"]. Although generally frowned upon in Real Life today, it's had varying levels of acceptance throughout history. It was most famously acceptable in Ancient Greece, where it took the form of Lover and Beloved.
