A character who simply cannot become liked or even viewed by the other inhabitants of their world as basically good, no matter what they do.
If they kick a soccer ball to a child who lost it, it will instantly morph into a puppy ["https://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Main/KickTheDog"] before the poor kid's very eyes just to retroactively force evil on this villain. If they have a Love Interest, almost all other characters (and possibly even the viewer) will think of their affections as Stalker with a Crush or worse material. This character is often the object not merely of bad luck or karma but of active stereotyping, with the world at large openly calling their lifestyle, deeds, or even their very existence (in the case of those with powers) things like "criminal", "wrong", or "abomination against [insert god here]."
Generally treated by the author as either a figure of comedy or of tragedy. A comedic mandatory character will generally keep on trying throughout the entire series or story to make themselves good, and will generally keep their spirits up despite the misfortune visited upon them. On the other hand, a tragic mandatory character will sometimes become so fed up with their lot in life that they decide to deliberately cross ["https://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Main/ThenLetMeBeEvil"] the Moral Event Horizon into genuine villainy, and doing so may be treated either as a sign of the character's deep inner pain, as a sign that You Can't Fight Fate, or as a sign that the character was too morally weak depending on both the author's intent and in the seriousness of their suffering. When stereotyping is the thing that forces the villainy, there will sometimes be a stated or implied Aesop that all the suffering could have been avoided but for the type-casting committed by the less sympathetic characters.
Compare with Woobie, Destroyer of Worlds ["https://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Main/WoobieDestroyerOfWorlds"] for the tragic version of someone who snaps and does evil after much suffering and with Reformed, but Rejected for those who actually started out as villains at some point and it is out of mistrust and lack of forgiveness for what they did that they become rejected. Also compare with Trapped in Villainy for a character whose inability to reform comes from outside sources, mostly with genuine villains who threaten them into helping them. Contrast with Ineffectual Sympathetic Villain for the comedic — with the difference being the intended morality at which the comedic character fails. Compare Hero with an F in Good. Often appears in a Kafka Comedy.
