George Pérez
"And the one that was the biggest challenge, by not putting any highlights on, was to differentiate Robin from Kid Flash. Before, they tended to have the same exact face-I was guilty of it, when I started. I made a point of suddenly drawing in Kid Flash's cheeks-making him angular. If you look at a lot of pictures of Mikhail Barishnykov, to give him that very slender look. And, of course, very, very strong legs. The fact is that I'm trying to draw his arms less bulky but keep his legs very muscular. That man must have calves like iron. ""Kid Flash/Flash, he's always been the one who's been the most trouble, because he was a hard character to handle. If he's so super fast, technically if handled correctly, he'd make the rest of the characters superfluous. No way he could ever be caught by anything, no one should ever get the upper hand on him. So he never was my favorite character, only because he was just difficult to handle in a group situation. I think the Frances Kane character introduced with him was a nice addition, but they didn't play her up enough to kind of give him a much stronger anchor. I did like the fact that he had two living parents."
Marv Wolfman
"If you think logically, all he has to do is see the villain and the fight's over. He moves too quickly. I like his personality very much because I like playing his middle class, Midwest personality against the others. But as far as his power goes, I don't like it. Much too inconvenient. If used correctly, he's really too powerful. He's a good character. I like his personality. It's just that his powers are a very big problem. He just moves too fast.""We're going to play some games with him. Probably move him out of the book for a few months and then decide what to do with him when we bring him back. But we haven't yet decided how to handle him. And the best thing to do is to drop him for a few months in a logical fashion and fortunately the setup has been to do that anyway. And all the characters have been moving toward this one storyline. It will be about issue #40 or #41. But the reason I played him up the most is that I tend to work harder on characters I don't like or don't feel comfortable with. When I was at Marvel, I was assigned Fantastic Four and Spider-Man, so I wanted the FF and didn't want Spider-Man and I spent all my time on Spider-Man until I got to like him. And I didn't care about the FF. So I was hoping by working very hard on Kid Rash, I'd be able to conquer the problems, resolve the problems I was having with the character. Unfortunately, I still haven't."
Mark Waid
"He was a young, impatient, strong-willed hothead and God knows that's something I keyed into pretty quickly as well. Wally West is my alter ego. Wally is the easiest character in the world to write for me. He's what I'd be like if I was 60 pounds lighter and 10 years younger. Oh, and had super-speed.""I think Wally's unique in that his personality is defined by his power. People ask me 'What would Wally West be doing if he didn't have super-speed?" I have no idea. Wally would have no idea because it's a dream come true to him. As a child, he wanted to be just like The Flash. He got his wish. To me Wally is one of the few guys in comics who gets up every morning and says, "My God, I have the greatest job on Earth. I can't wait to be Flash today." That is core to Wally's personality."
Devin Grayson
"Wally joined the Titans for the most personal reason of all - to help a friend. He's incredibly busy now, but very up for the challenge -- as I've frequently said in his defense, if there's anyone who can be in two places at once, it's him! However, he can't be in THREE places at once, and so complications ensue in the Titans when he embarks on an adventure in his main book - an adventure he may not come back from!""Dick's busy, but Wally West's even busier. Not only does he have his own city to protect-if not the world-he's a member of the JLA and the Titans. He joins the Titans out of friendship. In a sense he makes a sacrifice, but he does it gracefully. There's no resentment there. But when the Titans start scheduling meetings at the same time the JLA does, that'll tick him off a little".
Jay Faerber
"I like that the Flash actually 'made it'," Faerber continues. "He's the only Titan to graduate into the big leagues and really take over the mantle of his mentor. Back in the day, that was something I always hoped would happen: the older heroes retire and the Titans take over, but I never thought it would.'